"5. WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5.1 Concomitant Gastric MalignancySymptomatic response to therapy with omeprazole does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. 5.2 Atrophic GastritisAtrophic gastritis has been noted occasionally in gastric corpus biopsies from patients treated long-term with omeprazole. 5.3 Combiniation Use of PRILOSEC with AmoxicillinSerious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions have been reported in patients on penicillin therapy. These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a history of penicillin hypersensitivity and/or a history of sensitivity to multiple allergens. Before initiating therapy with amoxicillin, careful inquiry should be made concerning previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins, cephalosporins or other allergens. If an allergic reaction occurs, amoxicillin should be discontinued and appropriate therapy instituted. Serious anaphylactic reactions require immediate emergency treatment with epinephrine. Oxygen, intravenous steroids and airway management, including intubation, should also be administered as indicated. Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported with nearly all antibacterial agents and may range in severity from mild to life-threatening. Therefore, it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial agents. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon and may permit overgrowth of clostridia. Studies indicate that a toxin produced by Clostridium difficile is a primary cause of "antibiotic-associated colitis." After the diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis has been established, therapeutic measures should be initiated. Mild cases of pseudomembranous colitis usually respond to discontinuation of the drug alone. In moderate to severe cases, consideration should be given to management with fluids and electrolytes, protein supplementation, and treatment with an antibacterial drug clinically effective against Clostridium difficile colitis. 5.4 Combination Use of PRILOSEC with ClarithromycinClarithromycin should not be used in pregnant women except in clinical circumstances where no alternative therapy is appropriate. If pregnancy occurs while taking clarithromycin, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus. (See Warnings in prescribing information for clarithromycin.) Co-administration of omeprazole and clarithromycin has resulted in increases in plasma levels of omeprazole, clarithromycin, and 14-hydroxy-clarithromycin. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12) ] Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with cisapride or pimozide, is contraindicated."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Gastric Malignancy: Symptomatic response does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. (5.1) - Atrophic Gastritis: Noted with long-term therapy. (5.2) -Acute Interstitial Nephritis: Observed in patients taking PPIs. (5.3) - Cyanocobalamin (Vitamin B-12) Deficiency: Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency of cyanocobalamin. (5.4) - Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea: PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk. (5.5) - Interaction with Clopidogrel: Avoid concomitant use of PRILOSEC. (5.6, 7) - Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist or spine. (5.7) - Hypomagnesemia: Reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs. (5.8) - Interaction with St. John's Wort or Rifampin: Avoid concomitant use of PRILOSEC. (5.9, 7) - Interactions with Diagnostic Investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors: Increased Chromogranin A (CgA) levels may interfere with diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors; temporarily stop PRILOSEC at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels. (5.10, 7) - Interaction with Methotrexate: Concomitant use with PPIs may elevate and/or prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to toxicity. With high dose methotrexate administration, consider a temporary withdrawal of PRILOSEC (5.11, 7). 5.1 Presence of Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with PRILOSEC does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. 5.2 Atrophic Gastritis Atrophic gastritis has been noted occasionally in gastric corpus biopsies from patients treated long-term with PRILOSEC. 5.3 Acute Interstitial Nephritis Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs including PRILOSEC. Acute interstitial nephritis may occur at any point during PPI therapy and is generally attributed to an idiopathic hypersensitivity reaction. Discontinue PRILOSEC if acute interstitial nephritis develops [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Cyanocobalamin (Vitamin B-12) Deficiency Daily treatment with any acid-suppressing medications over a long period of time (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption of cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) caused by hypo- or achlorhydria. Rare reports of cyanocobalamin deficiency occurring with acid-suppressing therapy have been reported in the literature. This diagnosis should be considered if clinical symptoms consistent with cyanocobalamin deficiency are observed in patients treated with PRILOSEC. 5.5 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like PRILOSEC may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with PRILOSEC, refer to Warnings and Precautions sections of the corresponding prescribing information. 5.6 Interaction with Clopidogrel Avoid concomitant use of PRILOSEC with clopidogrel. Clopidogrel is a prodrug. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is entirely due to an active metabolite. The metabolism of clopidogrel to its active metabolite can be impaired by use with concomitant medications, such as omeprazole, that inhibit CYP2C19 activity. Concomitant use of clopidogrel with 80 mg omeprazole reduces the pharmacological activity of clopidogrel, even when administered 12 hours apart. When using PRILOSEC, consider alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 5.7 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies suggest that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) , Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. 5.8 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), health care professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. 5.9 Interaction with St. John's Wort or Rifampin Drugs which induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 (such as St. John's Wort or rifampin) can substantially decrease omeprazole concentrations [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Avoid concomitant use of PRILOSEC with St. John's Wort or rifampin. 5.10 Interactions with Diagnostic Investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to drug-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Healthcare providers should temporarily stop PRILOSEC treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g. for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.11 Interaction with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia. With the administration of PERIKabiven(R) hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome may result. Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient's utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia, coma and death. Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain optimum levels while infusing PERIKABIVEN(R). Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during PERIKABIVEN(R) administration. Hypersensitivity reactions: Monitor for signs or symptoms and discontinue infusion if reactions occur. (5.2) Infection, fat overload, hyperglycemia and refeeding complications : Monitor for signs and symptoms; monitor laboratory parameters. (5.3, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 5.7) 5.1 Death in Preterm Infants Deaths in preterm infants after infusion of intravenous lipid emulsions have been reported. Autopsy findings included intravascular lipid accumulation in the lungs. Preterm and small for gestational age infants have poor clearance of intravenous lipid emulsion and increased free fatty acid plasma levels following lipid emulsion infusion. The safe and effective use of PERIKABIVEN(R) injection in pediatric patients, including preterm infants, has not been established. PERIKABIVEN(R) is not recommended for use in pediatric patients under the age of 2 years including preterm infants. 5.2 Hypersensitivity Reactions Stop infusion immediately and treat patient accordingly if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity or allergic reaction develop. Signs or symptoms may include: tachypnea, dyspnea, hypoxia, bronchospasm, tachycardia, hypotension, cyanosis, vomiting, nausea, headache, sweating, dizziness, altered mentation, flushing, rash, urticaria, erythema, pyrexia and chills. 5.3 Infections Patients who require parenteral nutrition are at high risk of infections due to malnutrition and their underlying disease state. Infection and sepsis may occur as a result of the use of intravenous catheters to administer parenteral nutrition, poor maintenance of catheters, or immunosuppressive effects of illness, drugs, and parenteral formulations. Decrease the risk of septic complications with heightened emphasis on aseptic technique in catheter placement and maintenance, as well as aseptic technique in the preparation of the nutritional formula. Monitor for signs and symptoms (including fever and chills) of early infections, including laboratory test results (including leukocytosis and hyperglycemia) and frequent checks of the parenteral access device. 5.4 Fat Overload Syndrome Fat overload syndrome is a rare condition that has been reported with intravenous lipid formulations. A reduced or limited ability to metabolize the lipid contained in PERIKABIVEN(R) accompanied by prolonged plasma clearance may result in a syndrome characterized by a sudden deterioration in the patient's condition accompanied by fever, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, coagulation disorders, hyperlipidemia, liver fatty infiltration (hepatomegaly), deteriorating liver function, and central nervous system manifestations (e.g., coma). The cause of the fat overload syndrome is unclear. The syndrome is usually reversible when the infusion of the lipid emulsion is stopped. Although it has been most frequently observed when the recommended lipid dosage was exceeded, cases have also been described where the lipid formulation was administered according to instructions. 5.5 Refeeding Syndrome Refeeding severely undernourished patients with parenteral nutrition may result in the refeeding syndrome, characterized by the intracellular shift of potassium, phosphorus, and magnesium as the patient becomes anabolic. Thiamine deficiency and fluid retention may also develop. Carefully monitor severely undernourished patients and slowly increase their nutrient intakes, while avoiding overfeeding, to prevent these complications. 5.6 Diabetes/Hyperglycemia PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with diabetes mellitus or hyperglycemia. With the administration of PERIKABIVEN(R) hyperglycemia and hyperosmolar syndrome may result. Administration of dextrose at a rate exceeding the patient's utilization rate may lead to hyperglycemia, coma and death. Monitor blood glucose levels and treat hyperglycemia to maintain optimum levels while infusing PERIKABIVEN(R). Insulin may be administered or adjusted to maintain optimal blood glucose levels during PERIKABIVEN(R) administration. 5.7 Monitoring/Laboratory Tests Routine Monitoring Frequent clinical evaluation and laboratory determinations are necessary for proper monitoring during administration. Monitor fluid status closely in patients with heart failure or pulmonary edema. Monitor serum triglycerides, fluid and electrolyte status, serum osmolarity, blood glucose, liver and kidney function, and blood count, including platelet and coagulation parameters, throughout treatment. In situations of severely elevated electrolyte levels stop PERIKABIVEN(R) until levels have been corrected. Essential Fatty Acids Monitoring patients for signs and symptoms of essential fatty acid deficiency (EFAD) is recommended. Laboratory tests are available to determine serum fatty acids levels. Reference values should be consulted to help determine adequacy of essential fatty acid status. Increasing essential fatty acid intake (enterally or parenterally) is effective in treating and preventing EFAD. In PERIKABIVEN(R), the mean composition of linoleic acid (an omega-6 essential fatty acid) is 19 mg/mL (range 17 to 20 mg/mL) and alpha-linolenic acid (an omega-3 essential fatty acid) is 2.3 mg/mL (range 1.8 to 3.8 mg/mL). There are insufficient long-term data to determine whether PERIKABIVEN(R) can supply essential fatty acids in adequate amounts in patients who may have increased requirements. 5.8 Thrombophlebitis PERIKABIVEN(R) is indicated for peripheral administration, or may be infused into a central vein. Peripheral catheters should not be used for solutions with osmolarity of >= 900 mOsm/L. The primary complication of peripheral access is venous thrombophlebitis, which manifests as pain, erythema, tenderness or a palpable cord. The catheter should be removed as soon as thrombophlebitis develops. 5.9 Precipitation with Ceftriaxone Precipitation of ceftriaxone-calcium can occur when ceftriaxone is mixed with calcium-containing parenteral nutrition solutions, such as PERIKABIVEN(R) in the same intravenous administration line. Ceftriaxone must not be administered simultaneously with PERIKABIVEN(R) via a Y-site. However, ceftriaxone and PERIKABIVEN(R) may be administered sequentially if the infusion lines are thoroughly flushed between infusions with a compatible fluid [ s ee Dosing and Administration (2.1)] . 5.10 Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatobiliary disorders are known to develop in some patients without preexisting liver disease who receive parenteral nutrition, including cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, cholestasis, hepatic steatosis, fibrosis and cirrhosis, possibly leading to hepatic failure. The etiology of these disorders is thought to be multifactorial and may differ between patients. Increase of blood ammonia levels and hyperammonemia may occur in patients receiving amino acid solutions. In some patients this may indicate hepatic insufficiency or the presence of an inborn error of amino acid metabolism [see Contraindications (4)] or hepatic insufficiency. Monitor liver function parameters and ammonia. Patients developing signs of hepatobiliary disorders should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in liver diseases in order to identify causative and contributory factors, and possible therapeutic and prophylactic interventions. 5.11 Electrolyte and Fluid Imbalance in Renal Impairment Patients with renal impairment, such as pre-renal azotemia, renal obstruction and protein-losing nephropathy may be at increased risk of electrolyte and fluid volume imbalance. PERIKABIVEN(R) should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment. PERIKABIVEN(R) dosage may require adjustment with specific attention to fluid, protein and electrolyte content in these patients. Monitor renal function parameters. Patients developing signs of renal impairment should be assessed early by a clinician knowledgeable in renal disease in order to determine the appropriate PERIKABIVEN(R) dosage and other treatment options. 5.12 Hypertriglyceridemia To evaluate the patient's capacity to eliminate and metabolize the infused lipid emulsion, measure serum triglycerides before the start of infusion (baseline value), with each increase in dosage, and regularly throughout treatment. Reduce dose of PERIKABIVEN(R) and monitor serum triglyceride levels in patients with serum triglyceride concentrations above 400 mg/dL to avoid the clinical consequences associated with hypertriglyceridemia. Serum triglyceride levels above 1,000 mg/dL have been associated with an increased risk of pancreatitis. Impaired lipid metabolism with hypertriglyceridemia may occur in conditions such as inherited lipid disorders, obesity, diabetes mellitus, and metabolic syndrome. In these cases, increased triglycerides can also be increased by dextrose and/or overfeeding. Monitor overall energy intake and other sources of lipid and dextrose, as well as drugs that may interfere with lipid and dextrose metabolism. 5.13 Aluminum Toxicity PERIKABIVEN(R) contains no more than 25 mcg/L of aluminum. The aluminum contained in PERIKABIVEN(R) may reach toxic levels with prolonged parenteral administration in patients with impaired kidney function. Preterm infants are at greater risk because their kidneys are immature, and they require large amounts of calcium and phosphate solutions that contain aluminum. Patients with impaired kidney function, including preterm infants, who receive parenteral levels of aluminum at greater than 4 to 5 mcg/kg/day, accumulate aluminum at levels associated with central nervous system and bone toxicity. Tissue loading may occur at even lower rates of administration of total parenteral nutrition products. 5.14 Interference with Laboratory Tests High levels of lipids in plasma may interfere with some laboratory blood tests such as hemoglobin, triglycerides, bilirubin, LDH, and oxygen saturation, if blood is sampled before lipid has been cleared from the bloodstream. Lipids are normally cleared after a lipid-free interval of 5 to 6 hours in most patients. PERIKABIVEN(R) contains Vitamin K1 which may interfere with anticoagulant activity [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . 5.15 Risk of Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease Parenteral Nutrition Associated Liver Disease (PNALD) has been reported in patients who receive parenteral nutrition for extended periods of time, especially preterm infants, and can present as cholestasis or steatohepatitis. The exact etiology is unknown and is likely multifactorial. Intravenously administered phytosterols (plant sterols) contained in plant-derived lipid formulations have been associated with development of PNALD although a causal relationship has not been established. If PERIKABIVEN(R) treated patients develop liver test abnormalities consider discontinuation or dosage reduction.",$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmia, seizures, and renal impairment: Encourage adequate hydration, assess concurrent medications, and consider laboratory assessments prior to and after use (5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4) Risks in patients with renal insufficiency or patients taking concomitant medications that affect renal function: Use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.3) Mucosal ulcerations: Consider potential for mucosal ulcerations when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease (5.5) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation: Rule out diagnosis before administration (4, 5.6) Patients at risk for aspiration: Observe during administration (5.7) Not for direct ingestion: Dissolve and take with additional water (5.8) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of Prepopik(R). Use caution in patients with congestive heart failure when replacing fluids. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration including signs of orthostatic hypotension after taking Prepopik(R), consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) and treat accordingly. Approximately 20% of patients in both arms (Prepopik(R), 2L of PEG + E plus two \\303\\227 5-mg bisacodyl tablets) of clinical trials of Prepopik(R) had orthostatic changes (changes in blood pressure and/or heart rate) on the day of colonoscopy. In clinical trials orthostatic changes were documented out to seven days post colonoscopy. [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)] Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias or seizures and renal impairment. Fluid and electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected before treatment with Prepopik(R). In addition, use caution when prescribing Prepopik(R) for patients who have conditions or who are using medications that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or that may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmia, and renal impairment. 5.2 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures with the use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Use caution when prescribing Prepopik(R) for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)] 5.3 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment As in other magnesium containing bowel preparations, use caution when prescribing Prepopik(R) for patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). These patients may be at increased risk for renal injury. Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration before, during and after the use of Prepopik(R). Consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. In patients with severely reduced renal function (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min), accumulation of magnesium in plasma may occur. 5.4 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing Prepopik(R) for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.5 Colonic Mucosal Ulceration, Ischemic Colitis and Ulcerative Colitis Osmotic laxatives may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of additional stimulant laxatives with Prepopik(R) may increase this risk. The potential for mucosal ulcerations should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease. [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)] 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering Prepopik(R). Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis. 5.7 Aspiration Patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during the administration of Prepopik(R). Use with caution in these patients. 5.8 Not for Direct Ingestion Each packet must be dissolved in 5 ounces of cold water and administered at separate times according to the dosing regimen. Ingestion of additional water is important to patient tolerance. Direct ingestion of the undissolved powder may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration, and electrolyte disturbances."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment: Assess concurrent medications and consider laboratory assessments prior to and after use (5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Risks in patients with renal insufficiency or patients taking concomitant medications that affect renal function: Use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Mucosal ulcerations and risk of ischemic colitis: Consider potential for mucosal ulcerations when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspected inflammatory bowel disease (5.5) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation: Rule out the diagnosis before administration (4, 5.6) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise all patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of Suclear. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking Suclear, perform post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse reactions including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with Suclear. Consider the risks of prescribing Suclear in patients with certain medical conditions that predispose them (or who are using medications that increase the risk of) fluid and electrolyte disturbances or that may increase the risk of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment. Use of alcohol may increase the risk of dehydration. 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Carefully consider the risks of prescribing Suclear for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Consider pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. Consider the risks of prescribing Suclear in patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment Consider the risks of prescribing Suclear in patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration before and after the use of Suclear. Consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests in these patients (e.g., electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). 5.5 Colonic Mucosal Ulcerations and Ischemic Colitis Osmotic laxatives may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations, and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and Suclear may increase these risks. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspect inflammatory bowel disease. 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering Suclear. Patients with severe active ulcerative colitis may be at increased risk of exacerbation of their disease with Suclear. 5.7 Use in Patients at Risk of Aspiration and Regurgitation Patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration should be observed during administration of Suclear solution. 5.8 Not for Direct Ingestion Direct ingestion of the undiluted solution may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration or other serious adverse reactions. Each bottle must be diluted with water to the recommended final volume."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Risk of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment - assess concurrent medications and consider testing in some patients (5.1, 5.2, 5.3) Patients with renal insufficiency - use caution, ensure adequate hydration and consider testing (5.4) Suspected GI obstruction or perforation - rule out the diagnosis before administration (4, 5.6) Patients at risk for aspiration - observe during administration (5.7) Not for direct ingestion - dilute and take with additional water (5.8) 5.1 Serious Fluid and Serum Chemistry Abnormalities Advise all patients to hydrate adequately before, during, and after the use of SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit. If a patient develops significant vomiting or signs of dehydration after taking SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit, consider performing post-colonoscopy lab tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN). Fluid and electrolyte disturbances can lead to serious adverse events including cardiac arrhythmias, seizures and renal impairment. Patients with electrolyte abnormalities should have them corrected before treatment with SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit. In addition, use caution when prescribing SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit for patients with conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and renal impairment. [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit can cause temporary elevations in uric acid. [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Uric acid fluctuations in patients with gout may precipitate an acute flare. The potential for uric acid elevation should be considered before administering SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit to patients with gout or other disorders of uric acid metabolism. 5.2 Cardiac Arrhythmias There have been rare reports of serious arrhythmias associated with the use of ionic osmotic laxative products for bowel preparation. Use caution when prescribing SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit for patients at increased risk of arrhythmias (e.g., patients with a history of prolonged QT, uncontrolled arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable angina, congestive heart failure, or cardiomyopathy). Pre-dose and post-colonoscopy ECGs should be considered in patients at increased risk of serious cardiac arrhythmias. 5.3 Seizures There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures and/or loss of consciousness associated with use of bowel preparation products in patients with no prior history of seizures. The seizure cases were associated with electrolyteabnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia) and low serum osmolality. The neurologic abnormalities resolved with correction of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Use caution when prescribing SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit for patients with a history of seizures and in patients at increased risk of seizure, such as patients taking medications that lower the seizure threshold (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), patients withdrawing from alcohol or benzodiazepines, or patients with known or suspected hyponatremia. 5.4 Renal Impairment Use caution when prescribing SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit for patients with impaired renal function or patients taking concomitant medications that may affect renal function (such as diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Advise these patients of the importance of adequate hydration, and consider performing baseline and post-colonoscopy laboratory tests (electrolytes, creatinine, and BUN) in these patients. 5.5 Colonic Mucosal Ulcerations and Ischemic Colitis Administration of osmotic laxative products may produce colonic mucosal aphthous ulcerations, and there have been reports of more serious cases of ischemic colitis requiring hospitalization. Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit may increase these risks. The potential for mucosal ulcerations resulting from the bowel preparation should be considered when interpreting colonoscopy findings in patients with known or suspect inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 5.6 Use in Patients with Significant Gastrointestinal Disease If gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation is suspected, perform appropriate diagnostic studies to rule out these conditions before administering SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit. Use with caution in patients with severe active ulcerative colitis. 5.7 Aspiration Use with caution in patients with impaired gag reflex and patients prone to regurgitation or aspiration. Such patients should be observed during administration of SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit solution. 5.8 Not for Direct Ingestion Each bottle must be diluted with water to a final volume of 16 ounces and ingestion of additional water as recommended is important to patient tolerance. Direct ingestion of the undiluted solution may increase the risk of nausea, vomiting, dehydration, and electrolyte disturbances."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Symptomatic response does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1) - Atrophic gastritis has been noted with long-term omeprazole therapy (5.2) - Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs. (5.3) - Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency: Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency of cyanocobalamin. (5.4) - PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. (5.5) - Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with clopidogrel. (5.6) - Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist or spine. (5.7) - Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs. (5.8) - Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with St John's Wort or rifampin due to the potential reduction in esomeprazole levels (5.9, 7.3) - Interactions with diagnostic investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors: Increases in intragastric pH may result in hypergastrinemia and enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia and increased chromogranin A levels which may interfere with diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. (5.10, 12.2) 5.1 Concurrent Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. 5.2 Atrophic Gastritis Atrophic gastritis has been noted occasionally in gastric corpus biopsies from patients treated long-term with omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer. 5.3 Acute Interstitial Nephritis Acute Interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs including esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. Acute interstitial nephritis may occur at any point during PPI therapy and is generally attributed to an idiopathic hypersensitivity reaction. Discontinue esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules if acute interstitial nephritis develops [see Contraindications (4) ]. 5.4 Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency Daily treatment with any acid-suppressing medications over a long period of time (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption of cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) caused by hypo- or achlorhydria. Rare reports of cyanocobalamin deficiency occurring with acid-suppressing therapy have been reported in the literature. This diagnosis should be considered if clinical symptoms consistent with cyanocobalamin deficiency are observed. 5.5 Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. 5.6 Interaction with Clopidogrel Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with clopidogrel. Clopidogrel is a prodrug. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is entirely due to an active metabolite. The metabolism of clopidogrel to its active metabolite can be impaired by use with concomitant medications, such as esomeprazole, that inhibits CYP2C19 activity. Concomitant use of clopidogrel with 40 mg esomeprazole reduces the pharmacological activity of clopidogrel. When using esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules consider alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Drug Interactions (7.3)and Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ]. 5.7 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies suggest that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2)and Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.8 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), health care professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. 5.9 Concomitant use of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed Release Capsules with St John's Wort or Rifampin Drugs which induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 (such as St John' s Wort or rifampin) can substantially decrease esomeprazole concentrations [ see Drug Interactions (7.3 ) ]. Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with St John' s Wort, or rifampin. 5.10 Interactions with Diagnostic Investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to drug-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Healthcare providers should temporarily stop esomeprazole treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g. for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 5.11 Concomitant use of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7.7) ]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1) Atrophic gastritis has been noted with long-term omeprazole therapy (5.2) Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs. (5.3) Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency: Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency of cyanocobalamin. (5.4) PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea. (5.5) Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with clopidogrel. (5.6) Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist or spine. (5.7) Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs. (5.8) Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with St. John's Wort or rifampin due to the potential reduction in esomeprazole levels (5.9, 7.3) Interactions with diagnostic investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors: Increases in intragastric pH may result in hypergastrinemia and enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia and increased chromogranin A levels which may interfere with diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. (5.10, 12.2) 5.1 Concurrent Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules do not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. 5.2 Atrophic Gastritis Atrophic gastritis has been noted occasionally in gastric corpus biopsies from patients treated long-term with omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer. 5.3 Acute Interstitial Nephritis Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs including esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. Acute interstitial nephritis may occur at any point during PPI therapy and is generally attributed to an idiopathic hypersensitivity reaction. Discontinue esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules if acute interstitial nephritis develops [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency Daily treatment with any acid-suppressing medications over a long period of time (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption of cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) caused by hypo- or achlorhydria. Rare reports of cyanocobalamin deficiency occurring with acid-suppressing therapy have been reported in the literature. This diagnosis should be considered if clinical symptoms consistent with cyanocobalamin deficiency are observed. 5.5 Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, refer to WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections of those package inserts. 5.6 Interaction with Clopidogrel Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with clopidogrel. Clopidogrel is a prodrug. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is entirely due to an active metabolite. The metabolism of clopidogrel to its active metabolite can be impaired by use with concomitant medications, such as esomeprazole, that inhibit CYP2C19 activity. Concomitant use of clopidogrel with 40 mg esomeprazole reduces the pharmacological activity of clopidogrel. When using esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules consider alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]. 5.7 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies suggest that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.8 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), health care professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.9 Concomitant use of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules with St. John's Wort or Rifampin Drugs which induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 (such as St. John's Wort or rifampin) can substantially decrease esomeprazole concentrations [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with St. John's Wort or rifampin. 5.10 Interactions with Diagnostic Investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to drug-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Healthcare providers should temporarily stop esomeprazole treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 5.11 Concomitant use of Esomeprazole Magnesium Delayed-Release Capsules with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7.7)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Symptomatic response does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy (5.1) Atrophic gastritis has been noted with long-term omeprazole therapy. (5.2) Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs. (5.3) Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency: Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency of cyanocobalamin. (5.4) PPI therapy may be associated with increased risk ofClostridium difficile associated diarrhea. (5.5) Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with clopidogrel. (5.6) Bone Fracture: Long-term and multiple daily dose PPI therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist or spine. (5.7) Hypomagnesemia has been reported rarely with prolonged treatment with PPIs (5.8) Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium with St John's Wort or rifampin due to the potential reduction in esomeprazole levels. (5.9, 7.3) Interactions with diagnostic investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors: Increases in intragastric pH may result in hypergastrinemia and enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia and increased chromogranin A levels which may interfere with diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. (5.10, 12.2) 5.1 Concurrent Gastric Malignancy Symptomatic response to therapy with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules does not preclude the presence of gastric malignancy. 5.2 Atrophic Gastritis Atrophic gastritis has been noted occasionally in gastric corpus biopsies from patients treated long-term with omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer. 5.3 Acute Interstitial Nephritis Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs including esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. Acute interstitial nephritis may occur at any point during PPI therapy and is generally attributed to an idiopathic hypersensitivity reaction. Discontinue esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules if acute interstitial nephritis develops [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) Deficiency Daily treatment with any acid-suppressing medications over a long period of time (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption of cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) caused by hypo-or achlorhydria. Rare reports of cyanocobalamin deficiency occurring with acid-suppressing therapy have been reported in the literature. This diagnosis should be considered if clinical symptoms consistent with cyanocobalamin deficiency are observed. 5.5 Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy like esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules may be associated with an increased risk of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, especially in hospitalized patients. This diagnosis should be considered for diarrhea that does not improve [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Clostridium diffficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents. For more information specific to antibacterial agents (clarithromycin and amoxicillin) indicated for use in combination with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, refer to WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS sections of those package inserts. 5.6 Interaction with Clopidogrel Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with clopidogrel. Clopidogrel is a prodrug. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is entirely due to an active metabolite. The metabolism of clopidogrel to its active metabolite can be impaired by use with concomitant medications, such as esomeprazole, that inhibit CYP2C19 activity. Concomitant use of clopidogrel with 40 mg esomeprazole reduces the pharmacological activity of clopidogrel. When using esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules consider alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]. 5.7 Bone Fracture Several published observational studies suggest that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy may be associated with an increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine. The risk of fracture was increased in patients who received high-dose, defined as multiple daily doses, and long-term PPI therapy (a year or longer). Patients should use the lowest dose and shortest duration of PPI therapy appropriate to the condition being treated. Patients at risk for osteoporosis-related fractures should be managed according to established treatment guidelines [see Dosage and Administration (2) and Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.8 Hypomagnesemia Hypomagnesemia, symptomatic and asymptomatic, has been reported rarely in patients treated with PPIs for at least three months, in most cases after a year of therapy. Serious adverse events include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures. In most patients, treatment of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the PPI. For patients expected to be on prolonged treatment or who take PPIs with medications such as digoxin or drugs that may cause hypomagnesemia (e.g., diuretics), health care professionals may consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to initiation of PPI treatment and periodically [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.9 Concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with St John's Wort or Rifampin Drugs which induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 (such as St. John's Wort or rifampin) can substantially decrease esomeprazole concentrations [see Drug Interactions (7.3)]. Avoid concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with St. Johns Wort or rifampin. 5.10 Interactions with Diagnostic Investigations for Neuroendocrine Tumors Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to drug-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Healthcare providers should temporarily stop esomeprazole treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g. for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)] 5.11 Concomitant use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with Methotrexate Literature suggests that concomitant use of PPIs with methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. In high-dose methotrexate administration a temporary withdrawal of the PPI may be considered in some patients [see Drug Interactions (7.7)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience with PRILOSEC MonotherapyBecause clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety data described below reflects exposure to PRILOSEC Delayed-Release Capsules in 3096 patients from worldwide clinical trials (465 patients from US studies and 2,631 patients from international studies). Indications clinically studied in US trials included duodenal ulcer, resistant ulcer, and Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. The international clinical trials were double blind and open-label in design. The most common adverse reactions reported (i.e., with an incidence rate greater or equal to 2%) from PRILOSEC-treated patients enrolled in these studies included headache (6.9%), abdominal pain (5.2%), nausea (4.0%), diarrhea (3.7%), vomiting (3.2%), and flatulence (2.7%). Additional adverse reactions that were reported with an incidence >=1% included acid regurgitation (1.9%), upper respiratory infection (1.9%), constipation (1.5%), dizziness (1.5%), rash (1.5%), asthenia (1.3%), back pain (1.1%), and cough (1.1%). The clinical trial safety profile in patients greater than 65 years of age was similar to that in patients 65 years of age or less. The clinical trial safety profile in pediatric patients who received PRILOSEC Delayed-Release Capsules was similar to that in adult patients. Unique to the pediatric population, however, adverse reactions of the respiratory system were most frequently reported in both the 1 to greater than 2 and 2 to 16 year age groups (75.0% and 18.5%, respectively). Similarly, fever was frequently reported in the 1 to 2 year age group (33.0%) and accidental injuries were reported frequently in the 2 to 16 year age group (3.8%). [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4) ] 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience with PRILOSEC in Combination Therapy for H. pylori EradicationIn clinical trials using either dual therapy with PRILOSEC and clarithromycin, or triple therapy with PRILOSEC, clarithromycin, and amoxicillin, no adverse reactions unique to these drug combinations were observed. Adverse reactions observed were limited to those previously reported with omeprazole, clarithromycin, or amoxicillin alone. Dual Therapy (PRILOSEC/clarithromycin) Adverse reactions observed in controlled clinical trials using combination therapy with PRILOSEC and clarithromycin (n = 346) that differed from those previously described for PRILOSEC alone were taste perversion (15%), tongue discoloration (2%), rhinitis (2%), pharyngitis (1%) and flu-syndrome (1%). (For more information on clarithromycin, refer to the clarithromycin prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section). Triple Therapy (PRILOSEC/clarithromycin/amoxicillin) The most frequent adverse reactions observed in clinical trials using combination therapy with PRILOSEC, clarithromycin, and amoxicillin (n = 274) were diarrhea (14%), taste perversion (10%), and headache (7%). None of these occurred at a higher frequency than that reported by patients taking antimicrobial agents alone. (For more information on clarithromycin or amoxicillin, refer to the respective prescribing information, Adverse Reactions sections). 6.3 Post-marketing ExperienceThe following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PRILOSEC Delayed-Release Capsules. Because these reactions are voluntarily reported from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their actual frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body As a Whole: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, interstitial nephritis, urticaria, (see also Skin below); fever; pain; fatigue; malaise; Cardiovascular: Chest pain or angina, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitations, elevated blood pressure, peripheral edema Endocrine: Gynecomastia Gastrointestinal: Pancreatitis (some fatal), anorexia, irritable colon, fecal discoloration, esophageal candidiasis, mucosal atrophy of the tongue, stomatitis, abdominal swelling, dry mouth. During treatment with omeprazole, gastric fundic gland polyps have been noted rarely. These polyps are benign and appear to be reversible when treatment is discontinued. Gastroduodenal carcinoids have been reported in patients with ZE syndrome on long-term treatment with PRILOSEC. This finding is believed to be a manifestation of the underlying condition, which is known to be associated with such tumors. Hepatic: Liver disease including hepatic failure (some fatal), liver necrosis (some fatal), hepatic encephalopathy hepatocellular disease, cholestatic disease, mixed hepatitis, jaundice, and elevations of liver function tests [ALT, AST, GGT, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin] Metabolic/Nutritional: Hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, weight gain Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness, myalgia, muscle cramps, joint pain, leg pain Nervous System/Psychiatric: Psychiatric and sleep disturbances including depression, agitation, aggression, hallucinations, confusion, insomnia, nervousness, apathy, somnolence, anxiety, and dream abnormalities; tremors, paresthesia; vertigo Respiratory: Epistaxis, pharyngeal pain Skin: Severe generalized skin reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; photosensitivity; urticaria; rash; skin inflammation; pruritus; petechiae; purpura; alopecia; dry skin; hyperhidrosis Special Senses: Tinnitus, taste perversion Ocular: Optic atrophy, anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, optic neuritis, dry eye syndrome, ocular irritation, blurred vision, double vision Urogenital: Interstitial nephritis, hematuria, proteinuria, elevated serum creatinine, microscopic pyuria, urinary tract infection, glycosuria, urinary frequency, testicular pain Hematologic: Agranulocytosis (some fatal), hemolytic anemia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, leucocytosis"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (>1%) are nausea, headache and vomiting (abdominal bloating, distension, pain/cramping, and watery diarrhea not requiring an intervention were not collected) (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Ferring at 1-888-FERRING (1-888-337-7464) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In randomized, multicenter, controlled clinical trials, nausea, headache, and vomiting were the most common adverse reactions (>1%) following Prepopik(R) administration. The patients were not blinded to the study drug. Since abdominal bloating, distension, pain/cramping, and watery diarrhea are known to occur in response to colon cleansing preparations, these effects were documented as adverse events in the clinical trials only if they required medical intervention (such as a change in study drug or led to study discontinuation, therapeutic or diagnostic procedures, met the criteria for a serious adverse event), or showed clinically significant worsening during the study that was not in the frame of the usual clinical course, as determined by the investigator. Prepopik(R) was compared for colon cleansing effectiveness with a preparation containing two liters (2L) of polyethylene glycol plus electrolytes solution (PEG + E) and two 5-mg bisacodyl tablets, all administered the day before the procedure. Table 1 displays the most common adverse reactions in Study 1 and Study 2 for the Prepopik(R) Split-Dose and Day-Before dosing regimens, respectively, each as compared to the comparator preparation. Table 1: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions observed in at Least (>1%) of Patients using the Split-Dose Regimen and Day-Before Regimen abdominal bloating, distension, pain/cramping, and watery diarrhea not requiring an intervention were not collected Adverse Reaction Study 1: Split-Dose Regimen Study 2: Day-Before Regimen PREPOPIK(R) (N=305) n (% = n/N) 2L PEG+E2L PEG + E = two liters polyethylene glycol plus electrolytes solution. with 2 \\303\\227 5-mg bisacodyl tablets (N=298) n (% = n/N) PREPOPIK(R) (N=296) n (% = n/N) 2L PEG+E with 2 \\303\\227 5-mg bisacodyl tablets (N=302) n (% = n/N) Nausea 8 (2.6) 11 (3.7) 9 (3.0) 13 (4.3) Headache 5 (1.6) 5 (1.7) 8 (2.7) 5 (1.7) Vomiting 3 (1.0) 10 (3.4) 4 (1.4) 6 (2.0) Electrolyte Abnormalities In general, Prepopik(R) was associated with numerically higher rates of abnormal electrolyte shifts on the day of colonoscopy compared to the preparation containing 2L of PEG + E plus two \\303\\227 5-mg bisacodyl tablets (Table 2). These shifts were transient in nature and numerically similar between treatment arms at the Day 30 visit. Table 2: Shifts from Normal Baseline to Outside the Normal Range at Day 7 and Day 30 Laboratory Parameter (direction of change) Visit Study 1: Split-Dose Regimen Study 2: Day-Before Regimen PREPOPIK(R) 2L PEG+E with 2\\303\\227 5 mg bisacodyl tablets PREPOPIK(R) 2L PEG+E with 2\\303\\227 5 mg bisacodyl tablets n/N (%) n/N (%) Potassium (low) Day of Colonoscopy 19/260 (7.3) 11/268 ( 4.1 ) 13/274 (4.7) 13/271 (4.8) 24-48 hours 3/302 (1.0) 2/294 (0.7) 3/287 (1.0) 5/292 (1.7) Day 7 11/285 (3.9) 8/279 (2.9) 6/276 (2.2) 14/278 (5.0) Day 30 11/284 (3.9) 8/278 (2.9) 7/275 (2.5) 8/284 (2.8) Sodium (low) Day of Colonoscopy 11/298 (3.7) 3/295 (1.0) 3/286 (1.0) 3/295 (1.0) 24-48 hours 1/303 (0.3) 1/295 (0.3) 1/288 (0.3) 1/293 (0.3) Day 7 2/300 (0.7) 1/292 (0.3) 1/285 (0.4) 1/291 (0.3) Day 30 2/299( 0.7) 3/291 (1.0) 1/284( 0.4) 1/296 (0.3) Chloride (low) Day of Colonoscopy 11/301 (3.7) 1/298 (0.3) 3/287 (1.0) 0/297 (0.0) 24-48 hours 1/303 (0.3) 0/295 (0.0) 2/288 (0.7) 0/293 (0.0) Day 7 1/303 (0.3) 3/295 (1.0) 0/285 (0.0) 0/293 (0.0) Day 30 2/302 (0.7) 3/294 (1.0) 0/285 (0.0) 0/298 (0.0) Magnesium (high) Day of Colonoscopy 34/294 (11.6) 0/294 (0.0) 25/288 (8.7) 1/289 (0.3) 24-48 hours 0/303 (0.0) 0/295 (0.0) 0/288 (0.0) 0/293 (0.0) Day 7 0/297 (0.0) 1/291 (0.3) 1/286 (0.3) 1/285 (0.4) Day 30 1/296 (0.3) 2/290 (0.7) 0/286 (0.0) 0/290 (0.0) Calcium (low) Day of Colonoscopy 2/292 (0.7) 1/286 (0.3) 0/276 (0.0) 2/282 (0.7) 24-48 hours 0/303 (0.0) 0/295 (0.0) 0/288 (0.0) 0/293 (0.0) Day 7 0/293 (0.0) 1/283 (0.4) 0/274 (0.0) 0/278 (0.0) Day 30 0/292 (0.0) 1/282 (0.4) 0/274 (0.0) 1/283 (0.4) Creatinine (high) Day of Colonoscopy 5/260 (1.9) 13/268 (4.9) 12/266 (4.5) 16/270 (5.9) 24-48 hours 1/303 (0.3) 0/295 (0.0) 0/288 (0.0) 0/293 (0.0) Day 7 10/264 (0.4) 13/267 (4.8) 10/264 (3.8) 10/265 (3.8) Day 30 11/264 (4.2) 14/265(5.3) 18/264 (6.8) 10/272 (3.7) eGFR (low) Day of Colonoscopy 22/221 (10.0) 17/214 (7.9) 26/199 (13.1) 25/224 (11.2) 24-48 hours 76/303 (25.1) 72/295 (24.4) 82/288 (28.5) 62/293 (21.2) Day 7 22/223 (10.0) 17/213 (8.0) 11/198 (5.6) 28/219 (12.8) Day 30 24/223(10.8) 21/211 (10.0) 21/199 (10.6) 24/224 (10.7) 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following foreign spontaneous reports have been identified during use of formulations similar to Prepopik(R). Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Allergic reactions Cases of hypersensitivity reactions including rash, urticaria, and purpura have been reported. Electrolyte abnormalities There have been reports of hypokalemia, hyponatremia and hypermagnesemia with the use of Prepopik(R) for colon preparation prior to colonoscopy. Gastrointestinal: Abdominal pain, diarrhea, fecal incontinence, and proctalgia have been reported with the use of Prepopik(R) for colon preparation prior to colonoscopy. There have been isolated reports of reversible aphthoid ileal ulcers. Ischemic colitis has been reported with the use of Prepopik(R) for colon preparation prior to colonoscopy. However, a causal relationship between these ischemic colitis cases and the use of Prepopik(R) has not been established. Neurologic, There have been reports of generalized tonic-clonic seizures associated with and without hyponatremia in epileptic patients."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (>=2%) are overall discomfort, abdominal distension, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and headache (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Braintree Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-874-6756 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. In randomized, multicenter, controlled clinical trials, the effectiveness of Suclear for colon cleansing was compared with two separate preparations containing two liters of polyethylene glycol plus electrolytes (Studies 1 and 2) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Suclear and the comparator preparation were administered entirely the day before the colonoscopy in Study 1, whereas they were administered as split doses in Study 2. In addition to collection of spontaneously reported adverse reactions, patients were instructed to complete a symptom scale questionnaire that targeted expected adverse reactions (overall discomfort, stomach cramping, stomach bloating, and nausea). Patients also were asked separately to report vomiting episodes. Table 1 presents the most common adverse reactions in Study 1 and Study 2. Table 1: Adverse Reactions Observed in At Least 2% of Patients Who Received the Day-Before Regimen or Split-Dose Regimen Adverse Reaction Study 1 (Day-Before Regimen) Study 2 (Split-Dose Regimen) Suclear (N=176) n (%) Comparator 1 (N=190) n (%) Suclear (N=186) n (%) Comparator 2\\342\\200\\241 (N=185) n (%) #Include spontaneously reported adverse reactions as well as those reported in a symptom scale questionnaire. *Abdominal pain also included reports of upper abdominal pain and abdominal tenderness.  Comparator 1: PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution; and two bisacodyl 5-mg delayed-release tablets. \\342\\200\\241 Comparator 2: PEG-3350, sodium sulfate, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, sodium ascorbate, and ascorbic acid for oral solution. Overall discomfort# 122 (69) 108 (57) 116 (62) 121 (65) Abdominal distension# 92 (52) 85 (45) 96 (52) 112 (61) Abdominal pain#* 71 (40) 78 (41) 70 (38) 79 (43) Nausea# 74 (42) 75 (40) 86 (46) 72 (39) Vomiting# 19 (11) 15 (8) 26 (14) 13 (7) Headache 1 (1) 3 (2) 3 (2) 2 (1) Electrolyte Abnormalities Table 2 presents the incidence of new laboratory abnormalities in Study 1 and Study 2. Table 2: Shifts from Normal at Baseline to Outside the Normal Range on the Day of Colonoscopy (for n/N, n= number with the event and N= number with normal baseline value) Laboratory Parameter (direction of change) Study 1: Day-Before Regimen Study 2: Split-Dose Regimen Suclear % (n/N) Comparator 1 % (n/N) Suclear % (n/N) Comparator 2\\342\\200\\241 % (n/N)  Comparator 1: PEG-3350, sodium chloride, sodium bicarbonate and potassium chloride for oral solution; and two bisacodyl 5-mg delayed-release tablets. \\342\\200\\241 Comparator 2: PEG-3350, sodium sulfate, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, sodium ascorbate, and ascorbic acid for oral solution. *Anion gap was calculated using the following formula: [Sodium (mEq/L)] - [Chloride (mEq/L)] + [Bicarbonate (mEq/L)]. Normal range was defined as 12\\302\\2614, and high was defined as a calculated value >16. **eGFR was calculated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula. Anion gap (high)* 3% (5/155) 5% (8/170) 10% (17/166) 8% (12/155) Bicarbonate (low) 3% (4/156) 3% (5/167) 4% (6/170) 12% (20/161) Bilirubin, total (high) 8% (12/157) 10% (17/170) 11% (19/170) 4% (6/162) Calcium (high) 9% (12/139) 4% (5/139) 4% (6/141) 5% (7/144) Chloride (low) 1% (1/157) 0% (0/171) 1% (1/173) 0% (0/163) Creatinine (high) 2% (3/145) 3% (4/155) 1% (2/167) 1% (1/153) Creatine kinase (high) 7% (10/138) 4% (6/151) 7% (10/147) 5% (7/143) eGFR (low)** 25% (21/84) 14% (12/88) 9% (9/101) 11% (9/85) Glucose (high) 7% (10/146) 3% (4/156) 2% (3/160) 3% (5/150) Magnesium (low) 1% (1/158) 1% (1/169) 0% (0/169) 1% (1/163) Osmolality (high) 2% (3/139) 5% (8/153) 4% (6/151) 8% (12/145) Phosphate (low) 0% (0/155) 0% (0/168) 3% (5/171) 1% (2/160) Potassium (low) 4% (5/144) 3% (4/160) 4% (6/162) 4% (7/159) Sodium (low) 0% (0/157) 0% (0/169) 1% (1/169) 1% (1/163) Uric acid (high) 6% (8/143) 7% (11/160) 4% (7/163) 3% (4/154)"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are: overall discomfort, abdominal fullness, nausea, abdominal cramping, and vomiting (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Braintree Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-874-6756 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in clinical studies of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a multicenter, controlled clinical trial comparing SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit with a bowel prep containing polyethylene glycol and electrolytes (PEG + E) that were administered in a split-dose (2-day) regimen, the most common adverse reactions after administration of SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit were overall discomfort, abdominal distention, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and headache; see Table 1, below. Less common Adverse Reactions occurring were AV Block (1 case) and CK increase. In this study, patients receiving SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit were limited to a light breakfast followed by clear liquids; patients receiving the PEG + E bowel prep were allowed to have a normal breakfast and a light lunch, followed by clear liquids. Table 1: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions Observed in at Least 2% of Patients on the Split-Dose (2-Day) Regimen Split-Dose (2-Day) Regimen Symptom SUPREP N=190 PEG + E product N=189 Overall Discomfort 54% 67% Abdominal Distension 40% 52% Abdominal Pain 36% 43% Nausea 36% 33% Vomiting 8% 4% Headache 1.1% 0.5% Table 2 shows the percentages of patients who developed new abnormalities of important electrolytes and uric acid after completing the bowel preparation with either SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit or PEG+E administered as a split-dose (2-day) regimen. Table 2: Patients with Normal Baseline Serum Chemistry with A Shift to an Abnormal Value While on the Split-Dose (2-Day) Regimen *Percent (n/N) of patients where N=number of patients with normal baseline who had abnormal values at the timepoint(s) of interest. Patients with normal bicarbonate at baseline who developed low bicarbonate (<= 21 mEq/L) and high anion gap (>= 13 mEq/L) on Day of Colonoscopy or Day 30. Day of Colonoscopy n (%)* Day 30 n (%)* Anion gap (high)  SUPREP 14 (8.9) 3 (1.9) PEG + Electrolytes 12 (7.6) 2 (1.4) Bicarbonate (low) SUPREP 20 (12.7) 7 (4.4) PEG + Electrolytes 24 (15.2) 4 (2.7) Bilirubin, total (high) SUPREP 14 (8.5) 0 (0) PEG + Electrolytes 20 (11.7) 3 (1.9) BUN (high) SUPREP 2 (1.6) 14 (11.2) PEG + Electrolytes 4 (2.9) 19 (14.5) Calcium (high) SUPREP 16 (10.4) 8 (5.2) PEG + Electrolytes 6 (3.7) 6 (3.9) Chloride (high) SUPREP 4 (2.4) 6 (3.7) PEG + Electrolytes 20 (12.2) 6 (3.8) Creatinine (high) SUPREP 3 (1.9) 5 (3.2) PEG + Electrolytes 2 (1.2) 8 (5.2) Osmolality (high) SUPREP 8 (5.8) NA PEG + Electrolytes 19 (12.9) NA Osmolality (low) SUPREP 3 (2.2) NA PEG + Electrolytes 2 (1.4) NA Potassium (high) SUPREP 3 (1.8) 6 (3.7) PEG + Electrolytes 5 (2.9) 8 (4.9) Sodium (low) SUPREP 5 (3.1) 1 (0.6) PEG + Electrolytes 4 (2.3) 2 (1.2) Uric acid (high) SUPREP 27 (23.5) 13 (11.5) PEG + Electrolytes 12 (9.5) 20 (16.7) There were also 408 patients who participated in a study in which either SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit or PEG+E were administered in an evening-only (1-day) regimen. Higher rates of overall discomfort, abdominal distention, and nausea were observed with the evening-only (1-day) regimen compared to the split-dose (2-day) regimen for both preparations. Patients treated with SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit had increased rates of vomiting with the evening-only (1-day) regimen. An evening-only (1-day) dosing regimen was associated with higher rates of abnormal values for some electrolytes when compared to the split-dose (2-day) regimen for both preparations. For SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit, the evening-only (1-day) regimen was associated with higher rates of total bilirubin (high), BUN (high), creatinine (high), osmolality (high), potassium (high) and uric acid (high) than the SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit split-dose (2-day) regimen. Administration of SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit in an evening-only (1-day) dosing regimen is not recommended."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (6.1): Adult (>= 18 years) (incidence >= 1%) are headache, diarrhea, nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain, constipation, and dry mouth Pediatric (1 to 17 years) (incidence >= 2%) are headache, diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea, and somnolence To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Torrent Pharma Inc. at 1-269-544-2299 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults The safety of esomeprazole magnesium was evaluated in over 15,000 patients (aged 18 to 84 years) in clinical trials worldwide including over 8,500 patients in the United States and over 6,500 patients in Europe and Canada. Over 2,900 patients were treated in long-term studies for up to 6 to 12 months. In general, esomeprazole magnesium was well tolerated in both short and long-term clinical trials. The safety in the treatment of healing of erosive esophagitis was assessed in four randomized comparative clinical trials, which included 1,240 patients on esomeprazole magnesium 20 mg, 2,434 patients on esomeprazole magnesium 40 mg, and 3,008 patients on omeprazole 20 mg daily. The most frequently occurring adverse reactions (>=1%) in all three groups were headache (5.5, 5, and 3.8, respectively) and diarrhea (no difference among the three groups). Nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain, constipation, and dry mouth occurred at similar rates among patients taking esomeprazole magnesium or omeprazole. Additional adverse reactions that were reported as possibly or probably related to esomeprazole magnesium with an incidence < 1% are listed below by body system: Body as a Whole: abdomen enlarged, allergic reaction, asthenia, back pain, chest pain, substernal chest pain, facial edema, peripheral edema, hot flushes, fatigue, fever, flu-like disorder, generalized edema, leg edema, malaise, pain, rigors; Cardiovascular: flushing, hypertension, tachycardia; Endocrine: goiter; Gastrointestinal: bowel irregularity, constipation aggravated, dyspepsia, dysphagia, dysplasia GI, epigastric pain, eructation, esophageal disorder, frequent stools, gastroenteritis, GI hemorrhage, GI symptoms not otherwise specified, hiccup, melena, mouth disorder, pharynx disorder, rectal disorder, serum gastrin increased, tongue disorder, tongue edema, ulcerative stomatitis, vomiting; Hearing: earache, tinnitus; Hematologic: anemia, anemia hypochromic, cervical lymphadenopathy, epistaxis, leukocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia; Hepatic: bilirubinemia, hepatic function abnormal, SGOT increased, SGPT increased; Metabolic/Nutritional: glycosuria, hyperuricemia, hyponatremia, increased alkaline phosphatase, thirst, vitamin B12 deficiency, weight increase, weight decrease; Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis aggravated, arthropathy, cramps, fibromyalgia syndrome, hernia, polymyalgia rheumatica; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anorexia, apathy, appetite increased, confusion, depression aggravated, dizziness, hypertonia, nervousness, hypoesthesia, impotence, insomnia, migraine, migraine aggravated, paresthesia, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo, visual field defect; Reproductive: dysmenorrhea, menstrual disorder, vaginitis; Respiratory: asthma aggravated, coughing, dyspnea, larynx edema, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis; Skin and Appendages: acne, angioedema, dermatitis, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, rash erythematous, rash maculo-papular, skin inflammation, sweating increased, urticaria; Special Senses: otitis media, parosmia, taste loss, taste perversion; Urogenital: abnormal urine, albuminuria, cystitis, dysuria, fungal infection, hematuria, micturition frequency, moniliasis, genital moniliasis, polyuria; Visual: conjunctivitis, vision abnormal. The following potentially clinically significant laboratory changes in clinical trials, irrespective of relationship to esomeprazole magnesium, were reported in <= 1% of patients: increased creatinine, uric acid, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, ALT, AST, hemoglobin, white blood cell count, platelets, serum gastrin, potassium, sodium, thyroxine and thyroid stimulating hormone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12)]. Decreases were seen in hemoglobin, white blood cell count, platelets, potassium, sodium, and thyroxine. Endoscopic findings that were reported as adverse reactions include: duodenitis, esophagitis, esophageal stricture, esophageal ulceration, esophageal varices, gastric ulcer, gastritis, hernia, benign polyps or nodules, Barrett's esophagus, and mucosal discoloration. The incidence of treatment-related adverse reactions during 6-month maintenance treatment was similar to placebo. There were no differences in types of related adverse reactions seen during maintenance treatment up to 12 months compared to short-term treatment. Two placebo-controlled studies were conducted in 710 patients for the treatment of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease. The most common adverse reactions that were reported as possibly or probably related to esomeprazole magnesium were diarrhea (4.3%), headache (3.8%), and abdominal pain (3.8%). Pediatrics The safety of esomeprazole magnesium was evaluated in 316 pediatric and adolescent patients aged 1 to 17 years in four clinical trials for the treatment of symptomatic GERD [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. In 109 pediatric patients aged 1 to 11 years, the most frequently reported (at least 1%) treatment-related adverse reactions in these patients were diarrhea (2.8%), headache (1.9%) and somnolence (1.9%). In 149 pediatric patients aged 12 to 17 years the most frequently reported (at least 2%) treatment-related adverse reactions in these patients were headache (8.1%), abdominal pain (2.7%), diarrhea (2%), and nausea (2%). No new safety concerns were identified in pediatric patients. Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin In clinical trials using combination therapy with esomeprazole magnesium plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin, no additional adverse reactions specific to these drug combinations were observed. Adverse reactions that occurred were limited to those observed when using esomeprazole magnesium, amoxicillin, or clarithromycin alone. The most frequently reported drug-related adverse reactions for patients who received triple therapy for 10 days were diarrhea (9.2%), taste perversion (6.6%), and abdominal pain (3.7%). No treatment-emergent adverse reactions were observed at higher rates with triple therapy than were observed with esomeprazole magnesium alone. For more information on adverse reactions with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their package inserts, Adverse Reactions sections. In clinical trials using combination therapy with esomeprazole magnesium plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin, no additional increased laboratory abnormalities particular to these drug combinations were observed. For more information on laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their package inserts, Adverse Reactions section. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of esomeprazole magnesium. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These reports are listed below by body system: Blood And Lymphatic: agranulocytosis, pancytopenia; Eye: blurred vision; Gastrointestinal: pancreatitis; stomatitis; microscopic colitis Hepatobiliary: hepatic failure, hepatitis with or without jaundice; Immune System: anaphylactic reaction/shock; Infections and Infestations: GI candidiasis; Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea; Metabolism and nutritional disorders: hypomagnesemia, with or without hypocalcemia and/or hypokalemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue: muscular weakness, myalgia, bone fracture; Nervous System: hepatic encephalopathy, taste disturbance; Psychiatric: aggression, agitation, depression, hallucination; Renal and Urinary: interstitial nephritis; Reproductive System and Breast: gynecomastia; Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal: bronchospasm; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue: alopecia, erythema multiforme, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal)."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (6.1): Adults (>= 18 years) (incidence >= 1%) are headache, diarrhea, nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain, constipation, and dry mouth Pediatric (1 to 17 years) (incidence >= 2%) are headache, diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea, and somnolence To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Aurobindo Pharma USA, Inc. at 1-866-850-2876 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults The safety of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules was evaluated in over 15,000 patients (aged 18 to 84 years) in clinical trials worldwide including over 8,500 patients in the United States and over 6,500 patients in Europe and Canada. Over 2,900 patients were treated in long-term studies for up to 6 to 12 months. In general, esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules were well tolerated in both short and long-term clinical trials. The safety in the treatment of healing of erosive esophagitis was assessed in four randomized comparative clinical trials, which included 1,240 patients on esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg, 2,434 patients on esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg, and 3,008 patients on omeprazole 20 mg daily. The most frequently occurring adverse reactions (>=1%) in all three groups were headache (5.5, 5, and 3.8, respectively) and diarrhea (no difference among the three groups). Nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain, constipation, and dry mouth occurred at similar rates among patients taking esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules or omeprazole. Additional adverse reactions that were reported as possibly or probably related to esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with an incidence < 1% are listed below by body system: Body as a Whole: abdomen enlarged, allergic reaction, asthenia, back pain, chest pain, substernal chest pain, facial edema, peripheral edema, hot flushes, fatigue, fever, flu-like disorder, generalized edema, leg edema, malaise, pain, rigors; Cardiovascular: flushing, hypertension, tachycardia; Endocrine: goiter; Gastrointestinal: bowel irregularity, constipation aggravated, dyspepsia, dysphagia, dysplasia GI, epigastric pain, eructation, esophageal disorder, frequent stools, gastroenteritis, GI hemorrhage, GI symptoms not otherwise specified, hiccup, melena, mouth disorder, pharynx disorder, rectal disorder, serum gastrin increased, tongue disorder, tongue edema, ulcerative stomatitis, vomiting; Hearing: earache, tinnitus; Hematologic: anemia, anemia hypochromic, cervical lymphadenopathy, epistaxis, leukocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia; Hepatic: bilirubinemia, hepatic function abnormal, SGOT increased, SGPT increased; Metabolic/Nutritional: glycosuria, hyperuricemia, hyponatremia, increased alkaline phosphatase, thirst, vitamin B12 deficiency, weight increase, weight decrease; Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis aggravated, arthropathy, cramps, fibromyalgia syndrome, hernia, polymyalgia rheumatica; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anorexia, apathy, appetite increased, confusion, depression aggravated, dizziness, hypertonia, nervousness, hypoesthesia, impotence, insomnia, migraine, migraine aggravated, paresthesia, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo, visual field defect; Reproductive: dysmenorrhea, menstrual disorder, vaginitis; Respiratory: asthma aggravated, coughing, dyspnea, larynx edema, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis; Skin and Appendages: acne, angioedema, dermatitis, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, rash erythematous, rash maculo-papular, skin inflammation, sweating increased, urticaria; Special Senses: otitis media, parosmia, taste loss, taste perversion; Urogenital: abnormal urine, albuminuria, cystitis, dysuria, fungal infection, hematuria, micturition frequency, moniliasis, genital moniliasis, polyuria; Visual: conjunctivitis, vision abnormal. The following potentially clinically significant laboratory changes in clinical trials, irrespective of relationship to esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, were reported in <= 1% of patients: increased creatinine, uric acid, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, ALT, AST, hemoglobin, white blood cell count, platelets, serum gastrin, potassium, sodium, thyroxine and thyroid stimulating hormone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12)]. Decreases were seen in hemoglobin, white blood cell count, platelets, potassium, sodium, and thyroxine. Endoscopic findings that were reported as adverse reactions include: duodenitis, esophagitis, esophageal stricture, esophageal ulceration, esophageal varices, gastric ulcer, gastritis, hernia, benign polyps or nodules, Barrett's esophagus, and mucosal discoloration. The incidence of treatment-related adverse reactions during 6-month maintenance treatment was similar to placebo. There were no differences in types of related adverse reactions seen during maintenance treatment up to 12 months compared to short-term treatment. Two placebo-controlled studies were conducted in 710 patients for the treatment of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease. The most common adverse reactions that were reported as possibly or probably related to esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules were diarrhea (4.3%), headache (3.8%), and abdominal pain (3.8%). Pediatrics The safety of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules was evaluated in 316 pediatric and adolescent patients aged 1 to 17 years in four clinical trials for the treatment of symptomatic GERD [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. In 109 pediatric patients aged 1 to 11 years, the most frequently reported (at least 1%) treatment-related adverse reactions in these patients were diarrhea (2.8%), headache (1.9%) and somnolence (1.9%). In 149 pediatric patients aged 12 to 17 years the most frequently reported (at least 2%) treatment-related adverse reactions in these patients were headache (8.1%), abdominal pain (2.7%), diarrhea (2%), and nausea (2%). Combination Treatment with Amoxicillin and Clarithromycin In clinical trials using combination therapy with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin, no additional adverse reactions specific to these drug combinations were observed. Adverse reactions that occurred were limited to those observed when using esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, amoxicillin, or clarithromycin alone. The most frequently reported drug-related adverse reactions for patients who received triple therapy for 10 days were diarrhea (9.2%), taste perversion (6.6%), and abdominal pain (3.7%). No treatment-emergent adverse reactions were observed at higher rates with triple therapy than were observed with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules alone. For more information on adverse reactions with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their package inserts, Adverse Reactions sections. In clinical trials using combination therapy with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules plus amoxicillin and clarithromycin, no additional increased laboratory abnormalities particular to these drug combinations were observed. For more information on laboratory changes with amoxicillin or clarithromycin, refer to their package inserts, Adverse Reactions section. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These reports are listed below by body system: Blood and Lymphatic: agranulocytosis, pancytopenia; Eye: blurred vision; Gastrointestinal: pancreatitis; stomatitis; microscopic colitis Hepatobiliary: hepatic failure, hepatitis with or without jaundice; Immune System: anaphylactic reaction/shock; Infections and Infestations: GI candidiasis; Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea; Metabolism and nutritional disorders: hypomagnesemia, with or without hypocalcemia and/or hypokalemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue: muscular weakness, myalgia, bone fracture; Nervous System: hepatic encephalopathy, taste disturbance; Psychiatric: aggression, agitation, depression, hallucination; Renal and Urinary: interstitial nephritis; Reproductive System and Breast: gynecomastia; Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal: bronchospasm; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue: alopecia, erythema multiforme, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal)."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (6.1): - Adults (>= 18 years) (incidence > 1%) are headache, diarrhea, nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain, constipation, and dry mouth - Pediatric (1 to 17 years) (incidence > 2%) are headache, diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea, and somnolence To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hetero Labs Limited at 866-495-1995 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults The safety of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules were evaluated in over 15,000 patients (aged 18 to 84 years) in clinical trials worldwide including over 8,500 patients in the United States and over 6,500 patients in Europe and Canada. Over 2,900 patients were treated in long-term studies for up to 6 to 12 months. In general, esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules were well tolerated in both short and long-term clinical trials. The safety in the treatment of healing of erosive esophagitis was assessed in four randomized comparative clinical trials, which included 1,240 patients on esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 20 mg, 2,434 patients on esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules 40 mg, and 3,008 patients on omeprazole 20 mg daily. The most frequently occurring adverse reactions (>=1%) in all three groups were headache (5.5, 5, and 3.8, respectively) and diarrhea (no difference among the three groups). Nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain, constipation, and dry mouth occurred at similar rates among patients taking esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules or omeprazole. Additional adverse reactions that were reported as possibly or probably related to esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with an incidence < 1% are listed below by body system: Body as a Whole: abdomen enlarged, allergic reaction, asthenia, back pain, chest pain, substernal chest pain, facial edema, peripheral edema, hot flushes, fatigue, fever, flu-like disorder, generalized edema, leg edema, malaise, pain, rigors; Cardiovascular: flushing, hypertension, tachycardia; Endocrine: goiter; Gastrointestinal: bowel irregularity, constipation aggravated, dyspepsia, dysphagia, dysplasia GI, epigastric pain, eructation, esophageal disorder, frequent stools, gastroenteritis, GI hemorrhage, GI symptoms not otherwise specified, hiccup, melena, mouth disorder, pharynx disorder, rectal disorder, serum gastrin increased, tongue disorder, tongue edema, ulcerative stomatitis, vomiting; Hearing: earache, tinnitus; Hematologic: anemia, anemia hypochromic, cervical lymphadenopathy, epistaxis, leukocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia; Hepatic: bilirubinemia, hepatic function abnormal, SGOT increased, SGPT increased; Metabolic/Nutritional: glycosuria, hyperuricemia, hyponatremia, increased alkaline phosphatase, thirst, vitamin B12 deficiency, weight increase, weight decrease; Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, arthritis aggravated, arthropathy, cramps, fibromyalgia syndrome, hernia, polymyalgia rheumatica; Nervous System/Psychiatric: anorexia, apathy, appetite increased, confusion, depression aggravated, dizziness, hypertonia, nervousness, hypoesthesia, impotence, insomnia, migraine, migraine aggravated, paresthesia, sleep disorder, somnolence, tremor, vertigo, visual field defect; Reproductive: dysmenorrhea, menstrual disorder, vaginitis; Respiratory: asthma aggravated, coughing, dyspnea, larynx edema, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis; Skin and Appendages: acne, angioedema, dermatitis, pruritus, pruritus ani, rash, rash erythematous, rash maculo-papular, skin inflammation, sweating increased, urticaria; Special Senses: otitis media, parosmia, taste loss, taste perversion; Urogenital: abnormal urine, albuminuria, cystitis, dysuria, fungal infection, hematuria, micturition frequency, moniliasis, genital moniliasis, polyuria; Visual: conjunctivitis, vision abnormal. The following potentially clinically significant laboratory changes in clinical trials, irrespective of relationship to esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, were reported in <= 1% of patients: increased creatinine, uric acid, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, ALT, AST, hemoglobin, white blood cell count, platelets, serum gastrin, potassium, sodium, thyroxine and thyroid stimulating hormone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12) ]. Decreases were seen in hemoglobin, white blood cell count, platelets, potassium, sodium, and thyroxine. Endoscopic findings that were reported as adverse reactions include: duodenitis, esophagitis, esophageal stricture, esophageal ulceration, esophageal varices, gastric ulcer, gastritis, hernia, benign polyps or nodules, Barrett's esophagus, and mucosal discoloration. The incidence of treatment-related adverse reactions during 6-month maintenance treatment was similar to placebo. There were no differences in types of related adverse reactions seen during maintenance treatment up to 12 months compared to short-term treatment. Two placebo-controlled studies were conducted in 710 patients for the treatment of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease. The most common adverse reactions that were reported as possibly or probably related to esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules were diarrhea (4.3%), headache (3.8%), and abdominal pain (3.8%). Pediatrics The safety of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules were evaluated in 316 pediatric and adolescent patients aged 1 to 17 years in four clinical trials for the treatment of symptomatic GERD [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. In 109 pediatric patients aged 1 to 11 years, the most frequently reported (at least 1%) treatment-related adverse reactions in these patients were diarrhea (2.8%), headache (1.9%) and somnolence (1.9%). In 149 pediatric patients aged 12 to 17 years the most frequently reported (at least 2%) treatment-related adverse reactions in these patients were headache (8.1%), abdominal pain (2.7%), diarrhea (2%), and nausea (2%). No new safety concerns were identified in pediatric patients. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These reports are listed below by body system: Blood And Lymphatic: agranulocytosis, pancytopenia; Eye: blurred vision; Gastrointestinal: pancreatitis; stomatitis; microscopic colitis Hepatobiliary: hepatic failure, hepatitis with or without jaundice; Immune System: anaphylactic reaction/shock; Infections and Infestations: GI candidiasis; Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea; Metabolism and nutritional disorders: hypomagnesemia, with or without hypocalcemia and/or hypokalemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue: muscular weakness, myalgia, bone fracture; Nervous System: hepatic encephalopathy, taste disturbance; Psychiatric: aggression, agitation, depression, hallucination; Renal and Urinary: interstitial nephritis; Reproductive System and Breast: gynecomastia; Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal: bronchospasm; Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue: alopecia, erythema multiforme, hyperhidrosis, photosensitivity, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal)."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are described below and elsewhere in labeling: -Acute Interstitial Nephritis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Cyanocobalamin (Vitamin B-12) Deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] - Clostridium difficile Associated Diarrhea [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Bone Fracture [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Hypomagnesemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Adults: Most common adverse reactions in adults (incidence >=2%) are -Headache, abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, and flatulence (6) Pediatric patients (1 to 16 years of age): -Safety profile similar to that in adults, except that respiratory system events and fever were the most frequently reported reactions in pediatric studies. (8.4) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact AstraZeneca at 1-800-236-9933 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience with PRILOSEC Monotherapy Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety data described below reflects exposure to PRILOSEC delayed-release capsules in 3096 patients from worldwide clinical trials (465 patients from US studies and 2,631 patients from international studies). Indications clinically studied in US trials included duodenal ulcer, resistant ulcer, and Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. The international clinical trials were double blind and open-label in design. The most common adverse reactions reported (i.e., with an incidence rate >=2%) from PRILOSEC-treated patients enrolled in these studies included headache (7%), abdominal pain (5%), nausea (4%), diarrhea (4%), vomiting (3%), and flatulence (3%). Additional adverse reactions that were reported with an incidence >=1% included acid regurgitation (2%), upper respiratory infection (2%), constipation (2%), dizziness (2%), rash (2%), asthenia (1%), back pain (1%), and cough (1%). The clinical trial safety profile in patients greater than 65 years of age was similar to that in patients 65 years of age or less. The clinical trial safety profile in pediatric patients who received PRILOSEC delayed-release capsules was similar to that in adult patients. Unique to the pediatric population, however, adverse reactions of the respiratory system were frequently reported in the 1 month to <1 year age group, the 1 to <2 year age group, and the 2 to 16 year age group (42%, 75% and 19%, respectively). In addition, otitis media was frequently reported in the 1 month to <1 year age group (22%), fever was frequently reported in the 1 to <2 year age group (33%), and accidental injuries were frequently reported in the 2 to 16 year age group (4%) [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience with PRILOSEC in Combination Therapy for H. pylori Eradication In clinical trials using either dual therapy with PRILOSEC and clarithromycin, or triple therapy with PRILOSEC, clarithromycin, and amoxicillin, no adverse reactions unique to these drug combinations were observed. Adverse reactions observed were limited to those previously reported with omeprazole, clarithromycin, or amoxicillin alone. Dual Therapy (PRILOSEC/clarithromycin) Adverse reactions observed in controlled clinical trials using combination therapy with PRILOSEC and clarithromycin (n = 346) that differed from those previously described for PRILOSEC alone were taste perversion (15%), tongue discoloration (2%), rhinitis (2%), pharyngitis (1%) and flu-syndrome (1%). (For more information on clarithromycin, refer to the clarithromycin prescribing information, Adverse Reactions section.) Triple Therapy (PRILOSEC/clarithromycin/amoxicillin) The most frequent adverse reactions observed in clinical trials using combination therapy with PRILOSEC, clarithromycin, and amoxicillin (n = 274) were diarrhea (14%), taste perversion (10%), and headache (7%). None of these occurred at a higher frequency than that reported by patients taking antimicrobial agents alone. (For more information on clarithromycin or amoxicillin, refer to the respective prescribing information, Adverse Reactions sections.) 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PRILOSEC. Because these reactions are voluntarily reported from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their actual frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body As a Whole: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, anaphylactic shock, angioedema, bronchospasm, interstitial nephritis, urticaria, (see also Skin below); fever; pain; fatigue; malaise Cardiovascular: Chest pain or angina, tachycardia, bradycardia, palpitations, elevated blood pressure, peripheral edema Endocrine: Gynecomastia Gastrointestinal: Pancreatitis (some fatal), anorexia, irritable colon, fecal discoloration, esophageal candidiasis, mucosal atrophy of the tongue, stomatitis, abdominal swelling, dry mouth, microscopic colitis. During treatment with omeprazole, gastric fundic gland polyps have been noted rarely. These polyps are benign and appear to be reversible when treatment is discontinued. Gastroduodenal carcinoids have been reported in patients with ZE syndrome on long-term treatment with PRILOSEC. This finding is believed to be a manifestation of the underlying condition, which is known to be associated with such tumors. Hepatic: Liver disease including hepatic failure (some fatal), liver necrosis (some fatal), hepatic encephalopathy hepatocellular disease, cholestatic disease, mixed hepatitis, jaundice, and elevations of liver function tests [ALT, AST, GGT, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin] Infections and Infestations: Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea Metabolism and Nutritional disorders: Hypoglycemia, hypomagnesemia, with or without hypocalcemia and/or hypokalemia, hyponatremia, weight gain Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness, myalgia, muscle cramps, joint pain, leg pain, bone fracture Nervous System/Psychiatric: Psychiatric and sleep disturbances including depression, agitation, aggression, hallucinations, confusion, insomnia, nervousness, apathy, somnolence, anxiety, and dream abnormalities; tremors, paresthesia; vertigo Respiratory: Epistaxis, pharyngeal pain Skin: Severe generalized skin reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme; photosensitivity; urticaria; rash; skin inflammation; pruritus; petechiae; purpura; alopecia; dry skin; hyperhidrosis Special Senses: Tinnitus, taste perversion Ocular: Optic atrophy, anterior ischemic optic neuropathy, optic neuritis, dry eye syndrome, ocular irritation, blurred vision, double vision Urogenital: Interstitial nephritis, hematuria, proteinuria, elevated serum creatinine, microscopic pyuria, urinary tract infection, glycosuria, urinary frequency, testicular pain Hematologic: Agranulocytosis (some fatal), hemolytic anemia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, leukocytosis"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the prescribing information. Hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Fat Overload Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Refeeding Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Diabetes/Hyperglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Thrombophlebitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Hepatobiliary disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10, 5.15 ) ] Electrolyte Imbalance and Fluid Overload in renal impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Hypertriglyceridemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Aluminum toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] The most common adverse reactions (>=3%) are hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, pyrexia, and increased blood triglycerides. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fresenius Kabi USA, LLC, Vigilance & Medical Affairs at 1-800-551-7176 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The clinical data described for PERIKABIVEN(R) reflects exposure in 93 patients exposed for 5 to 7 days in 4 active-controlled trials. The pooled population exposed to PERIKABIVEN(R) was 18 to 87 years old, 48% female, 73% Caucasian. The enrolled patients had varied underlying conditions such as gastrointestinal disorders (55%), vascular disorders (30%), metabolism and nutrition disorders (28%), respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders (22%), and psychiatric disorders (20%). Most patients received peripheral intravenous infusion doses of >=80% of their target mean daily exposure. Adverse reactions occurring in at least 2% of patients who received PERIKABIVEN(R) are shown in Table 3. Table 3: Adverse Reactions in >2% of Patients Treated with PERIKABIVEN(R) Adverse reaction PERIKABIVEN(R) N=93 (%) Hyperglycemia* 5 (5) Hypokalemia 4 (4) Pyrexia 4 (4) Blood triglycerides increased 3 (3) Phlebitis 2 (2) Nausea 2 (2) Pruritus 2 (2) Gamma-glutamyltransferase increased 2 (2) Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 2 (2) Alanine aminotransferase increased 2 (2) Blood glucose increased* 2 (2) C-reactive protein increased 2 (2) Blood urea increased 2 (2) Hypoalbuminemia 2 (2) * Terms as reported in clinical studies Less common adverse reactions in <=1% of patients who received PERIKABIVEN were hyperkalemia, hypomagnesaemia, hypernatremia, tachycardia, hypertension, thrombophlebitis, vomiting, jaundice, rash and increased blood bilirubin. 6.2 Post-Marketing Experience The following additional adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PERIKABIVEN(R) in countries where it is registered. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily post-approval from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to product exposure. Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal distension, abdominal pain General disorders and administration site conditions: chest tightness Hepatobiliary disorders: cholestasis Immune system disorders: allergic reaction, anaphylaxis Infections and infestations: infection Vascular disorders: flushed face",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coumarin and coumarin derivatives, including warfarin: Anticoagulant activity may be counteracted; monitor laboratory parameters. (7.1) 7.1 Coumarin and Coumarin Derivatives The soybean oil present in PERIKABIVEN(R) has vitamin K1. Vitamin K1 can reverse the anticoagulant activity of coumarin or coumarin derivatives, which work by blocking recycling of vitamin K1. Monitoring for anticoagulant activity is recommended in patients who are on both PERIKABIVEN(R) and coumarin or coumarin derivatives.",$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte change (7.1) Oral medication taken within 1 hour of start of each dosing: Might not be properly absorbed (7.2) Antibiotics: Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics may reduce efficacy of Prepopik(R)(7.3) 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Risks of Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing Prepopik(R) for patients with conditions or who are using medications that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. This includes patients receiving drugs which may be associated with hypokalemia (such as diuretics or corticosteroids, or drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk, such as cardiac glycosides) or hyponatremia. Use caution when Prepopik(R) is used in patients on nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) or drugs known to induce Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH), such as tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors, antipsychotic drugs and carbamazepine, as these drugs may increase the risk of water retention and/or electrolyte imbalance. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate. [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)] 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of administration of Prepopik(R) solution may be flushed from the GI tract and the medication may not be absorbed. Tetracycline and fluoroquinolone antibiotics, iron, digoxin, chlorpromazine and penicillamine, should be taken at least 2 hours before and not less than 6 hours after administration of Prepopik(R) to avoid chelation with magnesium. 7.3 Antibiotics Prior or concomitant use of antibiotics with Prepopik(R) may reduce efficacy of Prepopik(R) as conversion of sodium picosulfate to its active metabolite BHPM is mediated by colonic bacteria."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs that increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) Oral medication taken within 1 hour of each dose may not be absorbed properly (7.2). Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives may increase the risk of ischemic colitis (7.3). 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Certain medical conditions and concomitant medications may increase the risk for developing fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities when taking Suclear. This includes patients receiving drugs which may be associated with hypokalemia (such as diuretics or corticosteroids, or drugs where hypokalemia is a particular risk, such as cardiac glycosides) or hyponatremia. Use caution when Suclear is used in patients on nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) or drugs known to induce Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH), such as tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors, antipsychotic drugs and carbamazepine, as these drugs may increase the risk of water retention and/or electrolyte imbalance. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of each Suclear dose may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract, and the medication may not be absorbed properly. 7.3 Stimulant Laxatives Concurrent use of stimulant laxatives and Suclear may increase the risk of mucosal ulceration or ischemic colitis. Avoid use of stimulant laxatives (e.g., bisacodyl, sodium picosulfate) while taking Suclear."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS - May affect plasma levels of antiretroviral drugs - use with atazanavir and nelfinavir is not recommended; if saquinavir is used with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, monitor for toxicity and consider saquinavir dose reduction. (7.1) - May interfere with drugs for which gastric pH affects bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts, erlotinib, digoxin and mycophenolate mofetil). Patients treated with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules and digoxin may need to be monitored for digoxin toxicity. (7.2) - Combined inhibitor of CYP 2C19 and 3A4 may raise esomeprazole levels.(7.3) - Clopidogrel: Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsule decreases exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel. (7.3) - May increase systemic exposure of cilostazol and an active metabolite. Consider dose reduction. (7.3) - Tacrolimus: Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules may increase serum levels of tacrolimus (7.5) - Methotrexate: Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules may increase serum levels of methotrexate. (7.7) 7.1 Interference with Antiretroviral Therapy Concomitant use of atazanavir and nelfinavir with proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and the development of drug resistance. Co-administration of saquinavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to increase saquinavir concentrations, which may increase toxicity and require dose reduction. Omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer, has been reported to interact with some antiretroviral drugs. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Increased gastric pH during omeprazole treatment may change the absorption of the antiretroviral drug. Other possible interaction mechanisms are via CYP2C19. Reduced concentrations of atazanavir and nelfinavir For some antiretroviral drugs, such as atazanavir and nelfinavir, decreased serum levels have been reported when given together with omeprazole. Following multiple doses of nelfinavir (1250 mg, twice daily) and omeprazole (40 mg daily), AUC was decreased by 36% and 92%, Cmax by 37% and 89% and Cmin by 39% and 75% respectively for nelfinavir and M8. Following multiple doses of atazanavir (400 mg, daily) and omeprazole (40 mg, daily, 2 hr before atazanavir), AUC was decreased by 94%, Cmax by 96%, and Cmin by 95%. Concomitant administration with omeprazole and drugs such as atazanavir and nelfinavir is therefore not recommended. Increased concentrations of saquinavir For other antiretroviral drugs, such as saquinavir, elevated serum levels have been reported, with an increase in AUC by 82%, in Cmax by 75%, and in Cmin by 106%, following multiple dosing of saquinavir/ritonavir (1000/100 mg) twice daily for 15 days with omeprazole 40 mg daily co-administered days 11 to 15. Therefore, clinical and laboratory monitoring for saquinavir toxicity is recommended during concurrent use with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. Dose reduction of saquinavir should be considered from the safety perspective for individual patients. There are also some antiretroviral drugs of which unchanged serum levels have been reported when given with omeprazole. 7.2 Drugs for Which Gastric pH Can Affect Bioavailability Due to its effects on gastric acid secretion, esomeprazole can reduce the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of bioavailability. Like with other drugs that decrease the intragastric acidity, the absorption of drugs such as ketoconazole, atazanavir, iron salts, erlotinib and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) can decrease, while the absorption of drugs such as digoxin can increase during treatment with esomeprazole. Esomeprazole is an enantiomer of omeprazole. Concomitant treatment with omeprazole (20 mg daily) and digoxin in healthy subjects increased the bioavailability of digoxin by 10% (30% in two subjects). Co-administration of digoxin with esomeprazole is expected to increase the systemic exposure of digoxin. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when digoxin is taken concomitantly with esomeprazole. Co-administration of omeprazole in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving esomeprazole and MMF. Use esomeprazole with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 7.3 Effects on Hepatic Metabolism/Cytochrome P-450 Pathways Esomeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that esomeprazole is not likely to inhibit CYPs 1A2, 2A6, 2C9, 2D6, 2E1, and 3A4. No clinically relevant interactions with drugs metabolized by these CYP enzymes would be expected. Drug interaction studies have shown that esomeprazole does not have any clinically significant interactions with phenytoin, warfarin, quinidine, clarithromycin, or amoxicillin. However, post-marketing reports of changes in prothrombin measures have been received among patients on concomitant warfarin and esomeprazole therapy. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with proton pump inhibitors and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. Esomeprazole may potentially interfere with CYP2C19, the major esomeprazole metabolizing enzyme. Coadministration of esomeprazole 30 mg and diazepam, a CYP2C19 substrate, resulted in a 45% decrease in clearance of diazepam. Clopidogrel Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19. Concomitant use of esomeprazole 40 mg results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition. Avoid concomitant administration of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with clopidogrel. When using esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3) ]. Omeprazole acts as an inhibitor of CYP2C19. Omeprazole, given in doses of 40 mg daily for one week to 20 healthy subjects in cross-over study, increased Cmax and AUC of cilostazol by 18% and 26% respectively. Cmax and AUC of one of its active metabolites, 3,4-dihydrocilostazol, which has 4 to 7 times the activity of cilostazol, were increased by 29% and 69% respectively. Co-administration of cilostazol with esomeprazole is expected to increase concentrations of cilostazol and its above mentioned active metabolite. Therefore a dose reduction of cilostazol from 100 mg twice daily to 50 mg twice daily should be considered. Concomitant administration of esomeprazole and a combined inhibitor of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, such as voriconazole, may result in more than doubling of the esomeprazole exposure. Dose adjustment of esomeprazole is not normally required. However, in patients with Zollinger-Ellison's Syndrome, who may require higher doses up to 240 mg/day, dose adjustment may be considered. Drugs known to induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 or both (such as rifampin) may lead to decreased esomeprazole serum levels. Omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer, has been reported to interact with St. John's Wort an inducer of CYP3A4. In a cross-over study in 12 healthy male subjects, St. John's Wort (300 mg three times daily for 14 days) significantly decreased the systemic exposure of omeprazole in CYP2C19 poor metabolisers (Cmax and AUC decreased by 37.5% and 37.9%, respectively) and extensive metabolisers (Cmax and AUC decreased by 49.6 % and 43.9%, respectively). Avoid concomitant use of St. John's Wort or rifampin with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. 7.4 Interactions With Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Drug-induced decrease in gastric acidity results in enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia and increased Chromogranin A levels which may interfere with investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. 7.5 Tacrolimus Concomitant administration of esomeprazole and tacrolimus may increase the serum levels of tacrolimus. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11) ]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS May affect plasma levels of antiretroviral drugs - use with atazanavir and nelfinavir is not recommended; if saquinavir is used with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, monitor for toxicity and consider saquinavir dose reduction. (7.1) May interfere with drugs for which gastric pH affects bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts, erlotinib, digoxin and mycophenolate mofetil). Patients treated with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules and digoxin may need to be monitored for digoxin toxicity. (7.2) Combined inhibitor of CYP 2C19 and 3A4 may raise esomeprazole levels. (7.3) Clopidogrel: Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules decrease exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel. (7.3) May increase systemic exposure of cilostazol and an active metabolite. Consider dose reduction. (7.3) Tacrolimus: Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules may increase serum levels of tacrolimus (7.5) Methotrexate: Esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules may increase serum levels of methotrexate. (7.7) 7.1 Interference with Antiretroviral Therapy Concomitant use of atazanavir and nelfinavir with proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and the development of drug resistance. Co-administration of saquinavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to increase saquinavir concentrations, which may increase toxicity and require dose reduction. Omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer, has been reported to interact with some antiretroviral drugs. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Increased gastric pH during omeprazole treatment may change the absorption of the antiretroviral drug. Other possible interaction mechanisms are via CYP2C19. Reduced concentrations of atazanavir and nelfinavir For some antiretroviral drugs, such as atazanavir and nelfinavir, decreased serum levels have been reported when given together with omeprazole. Following multiple doses of nelfinavir (1250 mg, twice daily) and omeprazole (40 mg daily), AUC was decreased by 36% and 92%, Cmax by 37% and 89% and Cmin by 39% and 75% respectively for nelfinavir and M8. Following multiple doses of atazanavir (400 mg, daily) and omeprazole (40 mg, daily, 2 hr before atazanavir), AUC was decreased by 94%, Cmax by 96%, and Cmin by 95%. Concomitant administration with omeprazole and drugs such as atazanavir and nelfinavir is therefore not recommended. Increased concentrations of saquinavir For other antiretroviral drugs, such as saquinavir, elevated serum levels have been reported, with an increase in AUC by 82%, in Cmax by 75%, and in Cmin by 106%, following multiple dosing of saquinavir/ritonavir (1000/100 mg) twice daily for 15 days with omeprazole 40 mg daily co-administered days 11 to 15. Therefore, clinical and laboratory monitoring for saquinavir toxicity is recommended during concurrent use with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. Dose reduction of saquinavir should be considered from the safety perspective for individual patients. There are also some antiretroviral drugs of which unchanged serum levels have been reported when given with omeprazole. 7.2 Drugs for Which Gastric pH Can Affect Bioavailability Due to its effects on gastric acid secretion, esomeprazole can reduce the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of their bioavailability. Like with other drugs that decrease the intragastric acidity, the absorption of drugs such as ketoconazole, atazanavir, iron salts, erlotinib, and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) can decrease, while the absorption of drugs such as digoxin can increase during treatment with esomeprazole. Esomeprazole is an enantiomer of omeprazole. Concomitant treatment with omeprazole (20 mg daily) and digoxin in healthy subjects increased the bioavailability of digoxin by 10% (30% in two subjects). Co-administration of digoxin with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules is expected to increase the systemic exposure of digoxin. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when digoxin is taken concomitantly with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. Co-administration of omeprazole in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules and MMF. Use esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Effects on Hepatic Metabolism/Cytochrome P-450 Pathways Esomeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that esomeprazole is not likely to inhibit CYPs 1A2, 2A6, 2C9, 2D6, 2E1, and 3A4. No clinically relevant interactions with drugs metabolized by these CYP enzymes would be expected. Drug interaction studies have shown that esomeprazole does not have any clinically significant interactions with phenytoin, warfarin, quinidine, clarithromycin, or amoxicillin. However, post-marketing reports of changes in prothrombin measures have been received among patients on concomitant warfarin and esomeprazole therapy. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with proton pump inhibitors and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. Esomeprazole may potentially interfere with CYP2C19, the major esomeprazole metabolizing enzyme. Co-administration of esomeprazole 30 mg and diazepam, a CYP2C19 substrate, resulted in a 45% decrease in clearance of diazepam. Clopidogrel Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19. Concomitant use of esomeprazole 40 mg results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition. Avoid concomitant administration of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with clopidogrel. When using esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]. Omeprazole acts as an inhibitor of CYP2C19. Omeprazole, given in doses of 40 mg daily for one week to 20 healthy subjects in cross-over study, increased Cmax and AUC of cilostazol by 18% and 26% respectively. Cmax and AUC of one of its active metabolites, 3,4-dihydrocilostazol, which has 4 to 7 times the activity of cilostazol, were increased by 29% and 69% respectively. Co-administration of cilostazol with esomeprazole is expected to increase concentrations of cilostazol and its above mentioned active metabolite. Therefore a dose reduction of cilostazol from 100 mg twice daily to 50 mg twice daily should be considered. Concomitant administration of esomeprazole and a combined inhibitor of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, such as voriconazole, may result in more than doubling of the esomeprazole exposure. Dose adjustment of esomeprazole is not normally required. However, in patients with Zollinger-Ellison's Syndrome, who may require higher doses up to 240 mg/day, dose adjustment may be considered. Drugs known to induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 or both (such as rifampin) may lead to decreased esomeprazole serum levels. Omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer, has been reported to interact with St. John's Wort an inducer of CYP3A4. In a cross-over study in 12 healthy male subjects, St. John's Wort (300 mg three times daily for 14 days) significantly decreased the systemic exposure of omeprazole in CYP2C19 poor metabolisers (Cmax and AUC decreased by 37.5% and 37.9%, respectively) and extensive metabolisers (Cmax and AUC decreased by 49.6 % and 43.9%, respectively). Avoid concomitant use of St. John's Wort or rifampin with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. 7.4 Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Drug-induced decrease in gastric acidity results in enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia and increased Chromogranin A levels which may interfere with investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 7.5 Tacrolimus Concomitant administration of esomeprazole and tacrolimus may increase the serum levels of tacrolimus. 7.6 Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin Co-administration of esomeprazole, clarithromycin, and amoxicillin has resulted in increases in the plasma levels of esomeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS May affect plasma levels of antiretroviral drugs - use with atazanavir and nelfinavir is not recommended; if saquinavir is used with esomeprazole magnesium, monitor for toxicity and consider saquinavir dose reduction (7.1) May interfere with drugs for which gastric pH affects bioavailability (e.g., ketoconazole, iron salts, erlotinib, digoxin and mycophenolate mofetil). Patients treated with esomeprazole magnesium and digoxin may need to be monitored for digoxin toxicity. (7.2) Combined inhibitor of CYP 2C19 and 3A4 may raise esomeprazole levels. (7.3) Clopidogrel: Esomeprazole magnesium delayed release capsule decreases exposure to the active metabolite of clopidogrel. (7.3) May increase systemic exposure of cilostazol and an active metabolite. Consider dose reduction (7.3) Tacrolimus: Esomeprazole magnesium may increase serum levels of tacrolimus (7.5) Methotrexate: Esomeprazole magnesium delayed release capsule may increase serum levels of methotrexate (7.7) 7.1 Interference with Antiretroviral Therapy Concomitant use of atazanavir and nelfinavir with proton pump inhibitors is not recommended. Co-administration of atazanavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to substantially decrease atazanavir plasma concentrations and may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and the development of drug resistance. Co-administration of saquinavir with proton pump inhibitors is expected to increase saquinavir concentrations, which may increase toxicity and require dose reduction. Omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer, has been reported to interact with some antiretroviral drugs. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. Increased gastric pH during omeprazole treatment may change the absorption of the antiretroviral drug. Other possible interaction mechanisms are via CYP2C19. Reduced concentrations of atazanavir and nelfinavir For some antiretroviral drugs, such as atazanavir and nelfinavir, decreased serum levels have been reported when given together with omeprazole. Following multiple doses of nelfinavir (1250 mg, twice daily) and omeprazole (40 mg daily), AUC was decreased by 36% and 92%, Cmax by 37% and 89% and Cmin by 39% and 75% respectively for nelfinavir and M8. Following multiple doses of atazanavir (400 mg, daily) and omeprazole (40 mg, daily, 2 hr before atazanavir), AUC was decreased by 94%, Cmax by 96%, and Cmin by 95%. Concomitant administration with omeprazole and drugs such as atazanavir and nelfinavir is therefore not recommended. Increased concentrations of saquinavir For other antiretroviral drugs, such as saquinavir, elevated serum levels have been reported, with an increase in AUC by 82%, in Cmax by 75%, and in Cmin by 106%, following multiple dosing of saquinavir/ritonavir (1000/100 mg) twice daily for 15 days with omeprazole 40 mg daily co-administered days 11 to 15. Therefore, clinical and laboratory monitoring for saquinavir toxicity is recommended during concurrent use with esomeprazole magnesium. Dose reduction of saquinavir should be considered from the safety perspective for individual patients. There are also some antiretroviral drugs of which unchanged serum levels have been reported when given with omeprazole. 7.2 Drugs for Which Gastric pH Can Affect Bioavailability Due to its effects on gastric acid secretion, esomeprazole can reduce the absorption of drugs where gastric pH is an important determinant of their bioavailability. Like with other drugs that decrease the intragastric acidity, the absorption of drugs such as ketoconazole, atazanavir, iron salts, erlotinib, and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) can decrease, while the absorption of drugs such as digoxin can increase during treatment with esomeprazole. Esomeprazole is an enantiomer of omeprazole. Concomitant treatment with omeprazole (20 mg daily) and digoxin in healthy subjects increased the bioavailability of digoxin by 10% (30% in two subjects). Co-administration of digoxin with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules is expected to increase the systemic exposure of digoxin. Therefore, patients may need to be monitored when digoxin is taken concomitantly with esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules. Co-administration of omeprazole in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules and MMF. Use esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.3 Effects on Hepatic Metabolism/Cytochrome P-450 Pathways Esomeprazole is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that esomeprazole is not likely to inhibit CYPs 1A2, 2A6, 2C9, 2D6, 2E1, and 3A4. No clinically relevant interactions with drugs metabolized by these CYP enzymes would be expected. Drug interaction studies have shown that esomeprazole does not have any clinically significant interactions with phenytoin, warfarin, quinidine, clarithromycin, or amoxicillin. However, post-marketing reports of changes in prothrombin measures have been received among patients on concomitant warfarin and esomeprazole therapy. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Patients treated with proton pump inhibitors and warfarin concomitantly may need to be monitored for increases in INR and prothrombin time. Esomeprazole may potentially interfere with CYP2C19, the major esomeprazole metabolizing enzyme. Co-administration of esomeprazole 30 mg and diazepam, a CYP2C19 substrate, resulted in a 45% decrease in clearance of diazepam. Clopidogrel Clopidogrel is metabolized to its active metabolite in part by CYP2C19. Concomitant use of esomeprazole 40 mg results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition. Avoid concomitant administration of esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules with clopidogrel. When using esomeprazole magnesium delayed-release capsules, consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]. Omeprazole acts as an inhibitor of CYP2C19. Omeprazole, given in doses of 40 mg daily for one week to 20 healthy subjects in cross-over study, increased Cmax and AUC of cilostazol by 18% and 26% respectively. Cmax and AUC of one of its active metabolites, 3,4-dihydro-cilostazol, which has 4 to 7 times the activity of cilostazol, were increased by 29% and 69% respectively. Co-administration of cilostazol with esomeprazole is expected to increase concentrations of cilostazol and its above mentioned active metabolite. Therefore a dose reduction of cilostazol from 100 mg twice daily to 50 mg twice daily should be considered. Concomitant administration of esomeprazole and a combined inhibitor of CYP2C19 and CYP3A4, such as voriconazole, may result in more than doubling of the esomeprazole exposure. Dose adjustment of esomeprazole is not normally required. However, in patients with Zollinger-Ellison's Syndrome, who may require higher doses up to 240 mg/day, dose adjustment may be considered. Drugs known to induce CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 or both (such as rifampin) may lead to decreased esomeprazole serum levels. Omeprazole, of which esomeprazole is an enantiomer, has been reported to interact with St. John's Wort an inducer of CYP3A4. In a cross-over study in 12 healthy male subjects, St. Johns Wort (300 mg three times daily for 14 days) significantly decreased the systemic exposure of omeprazole in CYP2C19 poor metabolisers (Cmax and AUC decreased by 37.5% and 37.9%, respectively) and extensive metabolisers (Cmax and AUC decreased by 49.6 % and 43.9%, respectively). Avoid concomitant use of St. John's Wort or rifampin with esomeprazole magnesium. 7.4 Interactions With Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Drug-induced decrease in gastric acidity results in enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia and increased Chromogranin A levels which may interfere with investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precuations (5.10) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. 7.5 Tacrolimus Concomitant administration of esomeprazole and tacrolimus may increase the serum levels of tacrolimus. 7.6 Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin Co-administration of esomeprazole, clarithromycin, and amoxicillin has resulted in increases in the plasma levels of esomeprazole and 14-hydroxyclarithromycin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)]. Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions due to drug interactions [see Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. Because of these drug interactions, clarithromycin is contraindicated for co-administration with certain drugs [see Contraindications in prescribing information for clarithromycin]. 7.7 Methotrexate Case reports, published population pharmacokinetic studies, and retrospective analyses suggest that concomitant administration of PPIs and methotrexate (primarily at high dose; see methotrexate prescribing information) may elevate and prolong serum levels of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate. However, no formal drug interaction studies of methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Some drugs increase risks due to fluid and electrolyte changes (7.1) Oral medication taken within 1 hour of start of each dose might not be absorbed properly (7.2) 7.1 Drugs That May Increase Risks Due to Fluid and Electrolyte Abnormalities Use caution when prescribing SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit for patients with conditions, or who are using medications, that increase the risk for fluid and electrolyte disturbances or may increase the risk of adverse events of seizure, arrhythmias, and prolonged QT in the setting of fluid and electrolyte abnormalities. Consider additional patient evaluations as appropriate [see Warnings (5)] in patients taking these concomitant medications. 7.2 Potential for Altered Drug Absorption Oral medication administered within one hour of the start of each SUPREP Bowel Prep Kit dose may be flushed from the gastrointestinal tract, and the medication may not be absorbed properly."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Tables 3 and 4 include drugs with clinically important drug interactions and interaction with diagnostics when administered concomitantly with PRILOSEC and instructions for preventing or managing them. Consult the labeling of concomitantly used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with PPIs. Table 3: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting Drugs Co-Administered with PRILOSEC and Interaction with Diagnostics Antiretrovirals Clinical Impact: The effect of PPIs on antiretroviral drugs is variable. The clinical importance and the mechanisms behind these interactions are not always known. -Decreased exposure of some antiretroviral drugs (e.g., rilpivirine, atazanavir and nelfinavir) when used concomitantly with omeprazole may reduce antiviral effect and promote the development of drug resistance [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. -Increased exposure of other antiretroviral drugs (e.g., saquinavir) when used concomitantly with omeprazole may increase toxicity [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. -There are other antiretroviral drugs which do not result in clinically relevant interactions with omeprazole. Intervention: Rilpivirine-containing products: Concomitant use with PRILOSEC is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. Atazanavir: Avoid concomitant use with PRILOSEC. See prescribing information for atazanavir for dosing information. Nelfinavir: Avoid concomitant use with PRILOSEC. See prescribing information for nelfinavir. Saquinavir: See the prescribing information for saquinavir for monitoring of potential saquinavir-related toxicities. Other antiretrovirals: See prescribing information for specific antiretroviral drugs. Warfarin Clinical Impact: Increased INR and prothrombin time in patients receiving PPIs, including omeprazole, and warfarin concomitantly. Increases in INR and prothrombin time may lead to abnormal bleeding and even death. Intervention: Monitor INR and prothrombin time and adjust the dose of warfarin, if needed, to maintain target INR range. Methotrexate Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of omeprazole with methotrexate (primarily at high dose) may elevate and prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite hydroxymethotrexate, possibly leading to methotrexate toxicities. No formal drug interaction studies of high-dose methotrexate with PPIs have been conducted [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Intervention: A temporary withdrawal of PRILOSEC may be considered in some patients receiving high-dose methotrexate. CYP2C19 Substrates (e.g., clopidogrel, citalopram, cilostazol, phenytoin, diazepam) Clopidogrel Clinical Impact: Concomitant use of omeprazole 80 mg results in reduced plasma concentrations of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in platelet inhibition [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. There are no adequate combination studies of a lower dose of omeprazole or a higher dose of clopidogrel in comparison with the approved dose of clopidogrel. Intervention: Avoid concomitant use with PRILOSEC. Consider use of alternative anti-platelet therapy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Citalopram Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of citalopram leading to an increased risk of QT prolongation [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: Limit the dose of citalopram to a maximum of 20 mg per day. See prescribing information for citalopram. Cilostazol Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of one of the active metabolites of cilostazol (3,4-dihydro-cilostazol) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Reduce the dose of cilostazol to 50 mg twice daily. See prescribing information for cilostazol. Phenytoin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of phenytoin. Intervention: Monitor phenytoin serum concentrations. Dose adjustment may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for phenytoin. Diazepam Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of diazepam [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intervention: Monitor patients for increased sedation and reduce the dose of diazepam as needed. Digoxin Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of digoxin [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Monitor digoxin concentrations. Dose adjustment may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See digoxin prescribing information. Drugs Dependent on Gastric pH for Absorption (e.g., iron salts, erlotinib, dasatinib, nilotinib, mycophenolate mofetil, ketoconazole/itraconazole) Clinical Impact: Omeprazole can reduce the absorption of other drugs due to its effect on reducing intragastric acidity. Intervention: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF): Co-administration of omeprazole in healthy subjects and in transplant patients receiving MMF has been reported to reduce the exposure to the active metabolite, mycophenolic acid (MPA), possibly due to a decrease in MMF solubility at an increased gastric pH. The clinical relevance of reduced MPA exposure on organ rejection has not been established in transplant patients receiving PRILOSEC and MMF. Use PRILOSEC with caution in transplant patients receiving MMF [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. See the prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption. Combination Therapy with Clarithromycin and Amoxicillin Clinical Impact: Concomitant administration of clarithromycin with other drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions, including potentially fatal arrhythmias, and are contraindicated. Amoxicillin also has drug interactions. Intervention: See Contraindications, Warnings and Precautions in prescribing information for clarithromycin. See Drug Interactions in prescribing information for amoxicillin Tacrolimus Clinical Impact: Potential for increased exposure of tacrolimus, especially in transplant patients who are intermediate or poor metabolizers of CYP2C19. Intervention: Monitor tacrolimus whole blood concentrations. Dose adjustment may be needed to maintain therapeutic drug concentrations. See prescribing information for tacrolimus. Interactions with Investigations of Neuroendocrine Tumors Clinical Impact: Serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels increase secondary to PPI-induced decreases in gastric acidity. The increased CgA level may cause false positive results in diagnostic investigations for neuroendocrine tumors [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Intervention: Temporarily stop PRILOSEC treatment at least 14 days before assessing CgA levels and consider repeating the test if initial CgA levels are high. If serial tests are performed (e.g., for monitoring), the same commercial laboratory should be used for testing, as reference ranges between tests may vary. Interaction with Secretin Stimulation Test Clinical Impact: Hyper-response in gastrin secretion in response to secretin stimulation test, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. Intervention: Temporarily stop PRILOSEC treatment at least 14 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to return to baseline [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. False Positive Urine Tests for THC Clinical Impact: There have been reports of false positive urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving PPIs. Intervention: An alternative confirmatory method should be considered to verify positive results. Other Clinical Impact: There have been clinical reports of interactions with other drugs metabolized via the cytochrome P450 system (e.g., cyclosporine, disulfiram). Intervention: Monitor patients to determine if it is necessary to adjust the dosage of these other drugs when taken concomitantly with PRILOSEC. Table 4: Clinically Relevant Interactions Affecting PRILOSEC When Co-Administered with Other Drugs CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inducers Clinical Impact: Decreased exposure of omeprazole when used concomitantly with strong inducers [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: St. John's Wort, rifampin: Avoid concomitant use with PRILOSEC [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Ritonavir-containing products: see prescribing information for specific drugs CYP2C19 or CYP3A4 Inhibitors Clinical Impact: Increased exposure of omeprazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. Intervention: Voriconazole: Dose adjustment of PRILOSEC is not normally required. However, in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, who may require higher doses, dose adjustment may be considered. See prescribing information for voriconazole. See full prescribing information for a list of clinically important drug interactions. (7)"$$
"ADVERSE REACTION Allergic sensitizations have been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. Gastrointestinal disturbances (anorexia, nausea, diarrhea, constipation) occur occasionally, but are usually mild and subside with continuation of therapy and physician encouragement. Although the absorption of iron is best when taken between meals, occasional G.I. disturbances may be controlled by giving Centratex shortly after meals."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals but generally at levels substantially higher than those contained herein. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in STROVITE(R) FORTE. However, allergic and idiosyncratic reactions are possible at lower levels. Iron, even at the usual recommended levels, has been associated with gastrointestinal intolerance in some patients."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions have been reported with specific vitamins and minerals, but generally at levels substantially higher than those in STROVITE(R) ONE."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions may occur with any given intrathecal injection due to the chemotherapy or the technique of intrathecal administration. (See product labeling for methotrexate sodium and cytarabine.) Preservative-free methotrexate sodium and cytarabine should be used to minimize adverse reactions due to preservatives. If an adverse reaction does occur, discontinue the administration, evaluate the patient, institute appropriate therapeutic countermeasures and, if possible, save the remainder of the unused solution(s) for examination."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report adverse side effects or obtain product information by contacting CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-866-633-9033."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Allergic rash and other idiosyncrasies have been rarely reported. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report adverse side effects or obtain product information by contacting CarWin Pharmaceutical Associates, LLC at 1-866-633-9033"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parental administration of folic acid, and may possibly occur with other forms of folate. Paresthesia, somnolence, nausea and headaches have been reported with vitamin B6. Mild transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, itching, transitory exanthema and the feeling of swelling of the entire body have been associated with vitamin B12."$$
"Adverse Reactions Allergic sensitization has been reported following both oral and parenteral administration of folic acid. To report a serious adverse event or to obtain product information, contact (866) 703-3508."$$
"Adverse Reactions DIST. BY MEIJER DISTRIBUTION, iNC. GRAND RAPIDS, MI 49544 www.meijer.com MEIJER PHARMACISTS RECOMMEND MONEY BACK GUARANTEE"$$
"Adverse Reactions DISTRIBUTED BY: FOODHOLD U.S.A., LLC LANDOVER, MD 20785 Quality Guaranteed or your money back."$$
"Adverse Reactions Distributed by SUPERVALU INC. Eden Prairie, MN 55344 USA Contact us at 1-877-932-7948 or www.supervalu-ourownbrands.com"$$
"Adverse Reactions DISTRIBUTED BY TE KORGER CO. CINCINNATI, OHIO 45202 QUALITY GUARANTEE www.kroger.com"$$
"Adverse Reactions Distributed by: Vi: Jon 8515 Page Avenue St. Louis, MO 63114 V#425040 Item# 602"$$
"Adverse reaction section Distributed By: Discount Drug Mart 211 Commerce Drive Medina, Ohio 44256"$$
"Adverse reaction section DISTRIBUTED BY: FOODHOLD U.S.A., LLC LANDOVER, MD 20785 1-877-846-9949 Quality guaranteed or your money back."$$
"Adverse reaction section Distributed by: Geiss, Destin and Dunn, Inc Peachtree City, GA 30269 www.valuelabels.com 1-866-696-0957"$$
"Adverse reaction section DISTRIBUTED BY PUBLIX SUPER MAKRETS, INC., 3300 PUBLIX CORPORATE PARKWAY LAKELAND, FL 33811 publix.com"$$
"Adverse reaction section DISTRIBUTED BY: SAFEWAY, INC P.O. BOX 99, PLEASANTON CA 94566-0009 1-888-SAFEWAY www.safeway.com"$$
"Adverse reaction section DISTRIBUTED BY TOPCO ASSOCIATES, LLC ELK GROVE VILLAGE, IL60007 1-888-423-0139 topcare@topco@com"$$
"Adverse reaction section Distributed by Vi-Jon One Swan Drive Smyrna, TN 37167"$$
"Adverse reaction section DISTRIBUTED BY: WAKEFERN FOOD CORP. 5000 RIVERSIDE DRIVE KEASBEY, NJ 08832 Your complete satisfaction or your money back. We welcome your questions and comments. Call: 1-800-ShopRite or Contact us: www.shoprite.com"$$
"Adverse reaction section DISTRIBUTED BY: WALREEN CO. 200 WILMOT RD., DEERFIELD, IL 60015 WALGREENS 100% SATISFACTION GUARANTEED walgreens.com 2014 Walgreen Co. MADE IN U.S.A. WITH US AND FOREIGN COMPONENTS"$$
"Adverse reaction section DISTRIBUTED BY: WINCO FOODS, LLC, BOISE, ID 83704 Comments & Questions? 800-824-1706 www.wincofoods.com"$$
"Adverse reaction section Manufactured For Your Military Exchanges By: Vi-Jon 8515 Page Ave St. Louis, MO 63114"$$
"Adverse reaction section Packaged by Vi-Jon, Inc. One Swan Dr., Smyrna, TN 37167 For ShopKo Stores Operating Co., LLC www.shopko.com For consumer questions call 1-888-593-0593 SHOPKO Satisfaction Guaranteed By Refund Or Exchange"$$
"Adverse reaction section We welcome any questions you may have at Target.com/comments or 1-800-910-6874 Distributed by Target Corporation Minneapolis, MN 55403 Made in U.S.A. with US and foreign components Shop Target.com"$$
"Adverse Reactions Flushing, sweating, sharply lowered blood pressure, hypothermia, stupor and ultimately, respiratory depression."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Flushing, sweating, sharply lowered blood pressure, hypothermia, stupor and ultimately, respiratory depression. Hypocalcemia with signs of tetany secondary to magnesium sulfate therapy for eclampsia has been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported with PLASMA-LYTE products with Dextrose. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity, where feasible. -Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including Anaphylactoid reaction, and the following manifestations: Hypotension, Chest discomfort, Dyspnea, Wheezing, Flushing, Hyperemia, Asthenia, Urticaria, Cold sweat, Pyrexia, Chills -Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperkalemia, Hyperglycemia -General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions (e.g., Burning sensation) Other adverse reactions, reported with PLASMA-LYTE products are: -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: Tachycardia, Palpitations, Chest Pain, Respiratory rate increased, Feeling abnormal, Piloerection, Edema peripheral -Infusion site pain"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported with PLASMA-LYTE products without Dextrose. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity, where feasible. -Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including Anaphylactoid reaction, and the following manifestations: Tachycardia, Palpitations, Chest pain, Chest discomfort, Dyspnea, Respiratory rate increased, Flushing, Hyperemia, Asthenia, Feeling abnormal, Piloerection, Edema peripheral, Pyrexia -General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions (e.g., Infusion site pain, Burning sensation) Other adverse reactions reported with PLASMA-LYTE products with Dextrose are: -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions; Hypotension, Wheezing, Urticaria, Cold sweat, Chills -Hyperkalemia Overdose Excessive administration of PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia was well as a decrease in ionized serum calcium and magnesium. An excessive volume of PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of magnesium may lead to hypermagnesemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-Marketing Adverse Reactions The following adverse reactions have been reported with PLASMA-LYTE products without Dextrose. Adverse reactions are listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC), then by Preferred Term in order of severity, where feasible. -Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity/infusion reactions, including Anaphylactoid reaction, and the following manifestations: Tachycardia, Palpitations, Chest pain, Chest discomfort, Dyspnea, Respiratory rate increased, Flushing, Hyperemia, Asthenia, Feeling abnormal, Piloerection, Edema peripheral, Pyrexia -General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Infusion site reactions (e.g., Infusion site pain, Burning sensation) Other adverse reactions reported with PLASMA-LYTE products with Dextrose are: -Other manifestations of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions: Hypotension, Wheezing, Urticaria, Cold sweat, Chills -Hyperkalemia Overdose Excessive administration of PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis may be accompanied by hypokalemia as well as a decrease in ionized serum calcium and magnesium. An excessive volume of PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may lead to fluid and sodium overload with a risk of edema (peripheral and/or pulmonary), particularly when renal sodium excretion is impaired. Excessive administration of potassium may lead to the development of hyperkalemia, especially in patients with severe renal impairment. Excessive administration of magnesium may lead to hypermagnesemia. When assessing an overdose, any additives in the solution must also be considered. The effects of an overdose may require immediate medical attention and treatment."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Post-marketing Experience No adverse events have been reported with a causal relationship to Spascupreel(R) injection solution. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact MediNatura. at 1.844.633.4628 or info@medinatura.com or FDA at1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"Adverse Reactions Proudly Distributed By: Valu Merchandisers, Co. 5000 Kansas Ave Kansas City, KS 66106 www.bestchoicebrand.com"$$
"Adverse Reactions section Distributed by DZA Brands, LLC Salisbury NC28147 Scarborough ME 04074 For product questions or concerns contact us at 1-866-322-2439 Please include UPC code and code from the package"$$
"Adverse Reactions The adverse effects of parenterally administered magnesium usually are the result of magnesium intoxication. These include flushing, sweating, hypotension, depressed reflexes, flaccid paralysis, hypothermia, circulatory collapse, cardiac and central nervous system depression proceeding to respiratory paralysis. Hypocalcemia with signs of tetany secondary to magnesium sulfate therapy for eclampsia has been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse effects of parenterally administered magnesium usually are the result of magnesium intoxication. These include flushing, sweating, hypotension, depressed reflexes, flaccid paralysis, hypothermia, circulatory collapse, cardiac and central nervous system depression proceeding to respiratory paralysis. Hypocalcemia with signs of tetany secondary to magnesium sulfate therapy for eclampsia has been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The adverse effects of parenterally administered magnesium usually are the result of magnesium intoxication. These include flushing, sweating, hypotension, depressed reflexes, flaccid paralysis, hypothermia, circulatory collapse, cardiac and CNS depression proceeding to respiratory paralysis. Hypocalcemia with signs of tetany secondary to magnesium sulfate therapy for eclampsia has been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: The adverse effects of parenterally administered magnesium usually are the result of magnesium intoxication. These include flushing, sweating, hypotension, depressed reflexes, flaccid paralysis, hypothermia, circulatory collapse, cardiac and CNS depression proceeding to respiratory paralysis. Hypocalcemia with signs of tetany secondary to magnesium sulfate therapy for eclampsia has been reported."$$
"DISTRIBUTED BY PUBLIX SUPER MARKETS, INC., 3300 PUBLIX CORPORATE PARKWAY LAKELAND, FL 33811 publix.com"$$
"Drug Interactions As little as 5 mg pyridoxine daily can decrease the efficacy of levodopa in the treatment of Parkinsonism. Therefore, STROVITE(R) FORTE is not recommended for patients undergoing such therapy. High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calciumcontaining kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. - Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. - Renal clearance of alkaline drugs such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), quinidine, or dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, PLASMA-LYTE 148 Injection (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. -Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. -Renal clearance of alkaline drugs, such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), quinidine, and dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, PLASMA-LYTE 56 and 5% Dextrose Injection (Multiple Electrolytes and Dextrose Injection, Type 1, USP) should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine. Administration of potassium in patients treated with these medications can produce severe and potentially fatal hyperkalemia, particularly in patients with severe renal insufficiency."$$
"Drug Interactions Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs that may increase the risk of sodium and fluid retention, such as corticosteroids. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with drugs for which renal elimination is pH dependent. Due to its alkalinizing effect (formation of bicarbonate), PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) may interfere with the elimination of such drugs. -Renal clearance of acidic drugs such as salicylates and barbiturates may be increased. -Renal clearance of alkaline drugs such as sympathomimetics (e.g., ephedrine, pseudoephedrine), quinidine, or dextroamphetamine (dexamphetamine) sulfate, may be decreased. Renal clearance of lithium may also be increased. Caution is advised when administering PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) to patients treated with lithium. Because of its potassium content, PLASMA-LYTE A Injection pH 7.4 (Multiple Electrolytes Injection, Type 1, USP) should be administered with caution in patients treated with agents or products that can cause hyperkalemia or increase the risk of hyperkalemia, such as potassium sparing diuretics (amiloride, spironolactone, triameterene), with ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, or the immunosuppressants tacrolimus and cyclosporine."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: C-NATE DHA softgels are not recommended for and should not be given to patients receiving levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by pyridoxine."$$
"Drug Interactions CNS Depressants \\342\\200\\224 When barbiturates, narcotics or other hypnotics (or systemic anesthetics), or other CNS depressants are to be given in conjunction with magnesium, their dosage should be adjusted with caution because of additive CNS depressant effects of magnesium. CNS depression and peripheral transmission defects produced by magnesium may be antagonized by calcium. Neuromuscular Blocking Agents \\342\\200\\224 Excessive neuromuscular block has occurred in patients receiving parenteral magnesium sulfate and a neuromuscular blocking agent; these drugs should be administered concomitantly with caution. Cardiac Glycosides \\342\\200\\224 Magnesium sulfate should be administered with extreme caution in digitalized patients, because serious changes in cardiac conduction which can result in heart block may occur if administration of calcium is required to treat magnesium toxicity."$$
"Drug Interactions Do not eat or drink dairy products within one hour of fluoride administration. Incompatibility of fluoride with dairy foods has been reported due to formation of calcium fluoride which is poorly absorbed."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS: Drugs which may interact with folate** include: Antiepileptic drugs (AED): The AED class including, but not limited to, phenytoin, carbamazepine, primidone, valproic acid, fosphenytoin, valproate, phenobarbital and lamotrigine have been shown to impair folate absorption and increase the metabolism of circulating folate. Additionally, concurrent use of folic acid has been associated with enhanced phenytoin metabolism, lowering the level of the AED in the blood and allowing breakthrough seizures to occur. Caution should be used when prescribing this product among patients who are receiving treatment with phenytoin and other anticonvulsants. Capecitabine: Folinic acid (5-formyltetrahydrofolate) may increase the toxicity of capecitabine. Cholestyramine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Colestipol: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Cycloserine: Reduces folic acid absorption and reduces serum folate levels. Dihydrofolate Reductase Inhibitors (DHFRI): DHFRIs block the conversion of folic acid to its active forms, and lower plasma and red blood cell folate levels. DHFRIs include aminopterin, methotrexate, pyrimethamine, triamterene, and trimethoprim. Fluoxetine: Fluoxetine exerts a noncompetitive inhibition of the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate active transport in the intestine. Isotretinoin: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking isotretinoin. L-dopa, triamterene, colchicine, and trimethoprim may decrease plasma folate levels. Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs): NSAIDs have been shown to inhibit some folate dependent enzymes in laboratory experiments. NSAIDs include ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin and sulindac. Oral Contraceptives: Serum folate levels may be depressed by oral contraceptive therapy. Methylprednisolone: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted after treatment with methylprednisolone. Pancreatic Enzymes: Reduced folate levels have occurred in some patients taking pancreatic extracts, such as pancreatin and pancrelipase. Pentamidine: Reduced folate levels have been seen with prolonged intravenous pentamidine. Pyrimethamine: High levels of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of pyrimethamine. Smoking and Alcohol: Reduced serum folate levels have been noted. Sulfasalazine: Inhibits the absorption and metabolism of folic acid. Metformin treatment in patients with type 2 diabetes decreases serum folate. Warfarin can produce significant impairment in folate status after a 6-month therapy. Heme-iron: Can compete for transport and reduce folate absorption. Ensure adequate medical supervision to ensure proper iron levels. Folinic acid may enhance the toxicity of fluorouracil. Concurrent administration of chloramphenicol and folinic acid in folate-deficient patients may result in antagonism of the haematopoietic response to folate. Caution should be exercised with the concomitant use of folinic acid and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for the acute treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in patients with HIV infection as it is associated with increased rates of treatment failure and mortality in a placebo controlled study. **Folate is a broad term that includes folic acid and all reduced forms including l-methylfolate and folinic acid. VP-HEME OB + DHA does not contain l-methylfolate or folinic acid but these warnings are included as general folate information. Drugs which interact with vitamin B12: Antibiotics, cholestyramine, colchicines, colestipol, metformin, para-aminosalicylic acid, and potassium chloride may decrease the absorption of vitamin B12. Nitrous oxide can produce a functional vitamin B12 deficiency. Drugs which interact with vitamin B6: Vitamin B6 should not be given to patients receiving the drug levodopa because the action of levodopa is antagonized by vitamin B6. However, vitamin B6 may be used concurrently in patients receiving a preparation containing both carbidopa and levodopa. Isoniazid can produce a vitamin B6 deficiency. Drugs which may interact with vitamin D3: Certain thiazide diuretics, such as hydrochlorothiazide, as well as antacids, bile acid sequestrants (such as cholestyramine), mineral oil, orlistat, olestra, cimetidine, and anticonvulsant medications may reduce the absorption or increase the catabolism of vitamin D. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calcium-containing kidney stones. Drugs which may interact with zinc: Concomitant administration of zinc supplements and certain antibiotics, specifically tetracyclines and quinolones, may decrease absorption of the antibiotic and potentially reduce its efficacy."$$
"Drug Interactions High doses of folic acid may result in decreased serum levels of anticonvulsant drugs. Vitamin D supplementation should not be given with large amounts of calcium in those with hypercalcemia or conditions that may lead to hypercalcemia such as hyperparathyroidism and those who form calciumcontaining kidney stones. Zinc can inhibit the absorption of certain antibiotics; take at least 2 hours apart to minimize interactions. Consult appropriate references for additional specific vitamin-drug interactions."$$
"For external use as a soaking aid for minor sprains and bruises Directions: Dissolve 2 cupfuls of tis product per gallon of water. Apply with bandages or toweling for 30 minutes up to three times a day, or use as a soak or in bath. Use warm water for best results."$$
"Proudly Distributed by Western Family Foods, Inc PO Box 4507 Portland, OR 97208"$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Keep out of reach of children."$$
"Warnings and Precautions WARNINGS: Accidental overdose of iron-containing products is a leading cause of fatal poisoning in children under 6. Keep this product out of the reach of children. In case of accidental overdose, call a doctor or Poison Control Center immediately. PRECAUTIONS: Folic Acid alone in doses above 0.1 mg daily may obscure pernicious anemia in that hematologic remission can occur while neurological manifestations remain progressive. Pernicious anemia should be excluded before using this product since folic acid may mask the symptoms of pernicious anemia. Ingestion of more than 3 grams per day of omega-3 fatty acids, such as DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) has been shown to have potential anti-thrombotic effects, including increased bleedng times. Administration of Folet DHA Omega-3 Fatty Acids should be avoided in patients taking anticoagulants."$$
