
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Incidence Greater Than 1% The following adverse reactions were observed in clinical trials and included observations from more than 2,700 patients, 594 of whom were treated for one year and 248 for at least 2 years. Gastrointestinal The most frequently reported adverse reactions associated with meclofenamate sodium involve the gastrointestinal system. In controlled studies of up to 6 months duration, these disturbances occurred in the following decreasing order of frequency with the approximate incidences in parentheses: diarrhea (10% to 33%), nausea with or without vomiting (11%), other gastrointestinal disorders (10%), and abdominal pain*. In long-term uncontrolled studies of up to 4 years duration, one third of the patients had at least one episode of diarrhea some time during meclofenamate sodium therapy. In approximately 4% of the patients in controlled studies, diarrhea was severe enough to require discontinuation of meclofenamate sodium. The occurrence of diarrhea is dose related, generally subsides with dose reduction, and clears with termination of therapy. The incidence of diarrhea in patients with osteoarthritis is generally lower than that reported in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Other reactions less frequently reported were pyrosis*, flatulence*, anorexia, constipation, stomatitis, and peptic ulcer. The majority of the patients with peptic ulcer had either a history of ulcer disease or were receiving concomitant anti-inflammatory drugs, including corticosteroids which are known to produce peptic ulceration. Cardiovascular: edema Dermatologic: rash*, urticaria, pruritus Central Nervous System: headache*, dizziness* Special Senses: tinnitus * Incidence between 3% and 9%. Those reactions occurring in 1% to 3% of patients are not marked with an asterisk. Incidence Less Than 1%\\342\\200\\224Probably Causally Related The following adverse reactions were reported less frequently than 1% during controlled clinical trials and through voluntary reports since marketing. The probability of a causal relationship exists between the drug and these adverse reactions. Gastrointestinal: bleeding and/or perforation with or without obvious ulcer formation, colitis, cholestatic jaundice Renal: renal failure Hematologic: neutropenia, thrombocytopenic purpura, leukopenia, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, eosinophilia, decrease in hemoglobin and/or hematocrit Dermatologic: erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis Hepatic: alteration of liver function tests Allergic: lupus and serum sickness-like symptoms Incidence Less Than 1%\\342\\200\\224Causal Relationship Unknown Other reactions have been reported but under conditions where a causal relationship could not be established. However, in these rarely reported events, that possibility cannot be excluded. Therefore, these observations are listed to alert physicians. Cardiovascular: palpitations Central Nervous System: malaise, fatigue, paresthesia, insomnia, depression Special Senses: blurred vision, taste disturbances, decreased visual acuity, temporary loss of vision, reversible loss of color vision, retinal changes including macular fibrosis, macular and perimacular edema, conjunctivitis, iritis Renal: nocturia Gastrointestinal: paralytic ileus Dermatologic: erythema nodosum, hair loss"$$
"Drug Interactions ACE-inhibitors Reports suggest that NSAIDs may diminish the antihypertensive effect of ACE-inhibitors. This interaction should be given consideration in patients taking NSAIDs concomitantly with ACE-inhibitors. Aspirin When meclofenamate sodium in administered with aspirin, its protein binding is reduced, although the clearance of free meclofenamate sodium is not altered. The clinical significance of this interaction is not known; however, as with other NSAIDs, concomitant administration of meclofenamate sodium capsules and aspirin is not generally recommended because of the potential of increased adverse effects. Furosemide Clinical studies, as well as post-marketing observations, have shown that meclofenamate sodium can reduce the natriuretic effect-of furosemide and thiazides in some patients. This response has been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis. During concomitant therapy with NSAIDs, the patient should be observed closely for signs of renal failure (see PRECAUTIONS: Renal Effects), as well as to assure diuretic efficacy. Lithium NSAIDs have produced an elevation of plasma lithium levels and a reduction in renal lithium clearance. The mean minimum lithium concentration increased 15% and the renal clearance was decreased by approximately 20%. These effects have been attributed to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis by the NSAID. Thus, when NSAIDs and lithium are administered concurrently, subjects should be observed carefully for signs of lithium toxicity. Methotrexate NSAIDs have been reported to competitively inhibit methotrexate accumulation in rabbit kidney slices. This may indicate that they could enhance the toxicity of methotrexate. Caution should be used when NSAIDs are administered concomitantly with methotrexate. Warfarin The effects of warfarin and NSAIDs on GI bleeding are synergistic, such that users of both drugs together have a risk of serious GI bleeding higher than users of either drug alone."$$
