"ADVERSE REACTIONS Anaphylactoid reaction, drowsiness, dry mouth, headache, fatigue, vomiting and, on rare occasions, blurred vision have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Drowsiness, dry mouth and, on rare occasions, blurred vision have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Drowsiness, dry mouth, and on rare occasions, blurred vision have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Anaphylactoid reaction, drowsiness, dry mouth, headache, fatigue, vomiting and, on rare occasions, blurred vision have been reported."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION Drowsiness, dry mouth and, on rare occasions, blurred vision have been reported."$$
"Drug Interactions There may be increased CNS depression when meclizine is administered concurrently with other CNS depressants, including alcohol, tranquilizers, and sedatives. ( see WARNINGS). Based on in-vitro evaluation, meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6. Therefore there is a possibility for a drug interaction between meclizine and CYP2D6 inhibitors."$$
"Drug Interactions There may be increased CNS depression when meclizine is administered concurrently with other CNS depressants, including alcohol, tranquilizers, and sedatives. (see WARNINGS) Based on in-vitro evaluation, meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6. Therefore there is a possibility for a drug interaction between meclizine and CYP2D6 inhibitors."$$
"Drug Interactions There may be increased CNS depression when meclizine is administered concurrently with other CNS depressants, including alcohol, tranquilizers, and sedatives. (see WARNINGS). Based on in-vitro evaluation, meclizine is metabolized by CYP2D6. Therefore there is a possibility for a drug interaction between meclizine and CYP2D6 inhibitors."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS WARNINGS Since drowsiness may, on occasion, occur with use of this drug, patients should be warned of this possibility and cautioned against driving a car or operating dangerous machinery. Patients should avoid alcoholic beverages while taking this drug. Due to its potential anticholinergic action, this drug should be used with caution in patients with asthma, glaucoma or enlargement of the prostate gland. PRECAUTIONS PREGNANCY, Teratogenic Effects Pregnancy Category B. Reproduction studies in rats have shown cleft palates at 25-50 times the human dose. Epidemiological studies in pregnant women, however, do not indicate that medicine increases the risk of abnormalities when administered during pregnancy. Despite the animal findings, it would appear that the possibility of fetal harm is remote. Nevertheless, meclizine, or any other medication, should be used during pregnancy only if clearly necessary. Pediatric Use Clinical studies establishing safety and effectiveness in children have not been done; therefore, usage is not recommended in children under 12 years of age."$$
