"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Estrogens increase the risk of gallbladder disease (5.4) Discontinue estrogen if severe hypercalcemia, loss of vision, severe hypertriglyceridemia or cholestatic jaundice occurs (5.5, 5.6, 5.9, 5.10) Monitor thyroid function in women on thyroid replacement therapy (5.11, 5.18) 5.1 Cardiovascular Disorders An increased risk of pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis (DVT), stroke and myocardial infarction has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. An increased risk of stroke and DVT has been reported with estrogen-alone therapy. Should any of these occur or be suspected, estrogens with or without progestins should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (for example, personal history of venous thromboembolism [VTE], obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. Stroke In the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in all women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to placebo (33 versus 25 per 10,000 women-years) [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted.1 Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (45 versus 33 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was demonstrated in year one and persisted [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest no increased risk of stroke for those women receiving CE (0.625 mg) versus those receiving placebo (18 versus 21 per 10,000 women-years).1 Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, there was a statistically non-significant increased risk of CHD events reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (41 versus 34 per 10,000 women-years).1 An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1, and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, no overall effect on coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as nonfatal myocardial infarction [MI], silent MI, or CHD death) was reported in women receiving estrogen-alone compared to placebo2 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest a statistically non-significant reduction in CHD events (CE 0.625 mg compared to placebo) in women with less than 10 years since menopause (8 versus 16 per 10,000 women-years).1 In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763), average age 66.7 years, in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study [HERS]), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE plus MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established coronary heart disease. There were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during subsequent years. Two thousand, three hundred and twenty-one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open label extension of HERS, HERS II. Average follow-up in HERS II was an additional 2.7 years, for a total of 6.8 years overall. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE (DVT and pulmonary embolism [PE]) was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10,000 women-years) were also demonstrated. The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first year and persisted3 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogens should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, the risk of VTE (DVT and pulmonary embolism [PE]) was increased for women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) compared to placebo (30 versus 22 per 10,000 women-years), although only the increased risk of DVT reached statistical significance (23 versus 15 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first 2 years4 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. If feasible, estrogens should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. 5.2 Malignant Neoplasms Endometrial Cancer Endometrial hyperplasia (a possible precursor of endometrial cancer) has been reported to occur at a rate of approximately 1 percent or less with PREMPRO or PREMPHASE. An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in a woman with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in nonusers, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with use of estrogens for less than 1 year. The greatest risk appears to be associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for 5 to 10 years or more, and this risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women using estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. There is no evidence that the use of natural estrogens results in a different endometrial risk profile than synthetic estrogens of equivalent estrogen dose. Adding a progestin to estrogen therapy in postmenopausal women has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia, which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin WHI substudy reported an increased risk of breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24, and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for estrogen plus progestin compared with placebo.5 Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years, for estrogen plus progestin compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years for estrogen plus progestin compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger and diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Metastatic disease was rare, with no apparent difference between the two groups. Other prognostic factors, such as histologic subtype, grade and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users is the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg). In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years, daily CE (0.625 mg) was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer [relative risk (RR) 0.80] 6 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.6 )]. Consistent with the WHI clinical trials, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. The risk increased with duration of use, and appeared to return to baseline over about 5 years after stopping treatment (only the observational studies have substantial data on risk after stopping). Observational studies also suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen plus progestin therapy as compared to estrogen-alone therapy. However, these studies have not found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, doses, or routes of administration. The use of estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Ovarian Cancer The WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy reported a statistically non-significant increased risk of ovarian cancer. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent nCI 0.77-3.24). The absolute risk for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years.7 In some epidemiologic studies, the use of estrogen-plus progestin and estrogen-only products has been associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer over multiple years of use. However, the duration of exposure associated with increased risk is not consistent across all epidemiologic studies, and some report no association. 5.3 Probable Dementia In the estrogen plus progestin Women's Health Initiative Memory Study (WHIMS), an ancillary study of WHI, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study, after an average follow-up of 4 years, 40 women in the CE plus MPA group and 21 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent nCI 1.21-3.48). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ), and Clinical Studies ( 14.7)]. In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study of WHI, a population of 2,947 hysterectomized women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) or placebo. In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study, after an average follow-up of 5.2 years, 28 women in the estrogen-alone group and 19 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 1.49 (95 percent nCI 0.83-2.66). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.7)]. When data from the two populations in the WHIMS estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin ancillary studies were pooled as planned in the WHIMS protocol, the reported overall relative risk for probable dementia was 1.76 (95 percent nCI 1.19-2.60). Since both ancillary studies were conducted in women 65 to 79 years of age, it is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women8 [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.5 ), and Clinical Studies ( 14.7)]. 5.4 Gallbladder Disease A 2- to 4-fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported. 5.5 Hypercalcemia Estrogen administration may lead to severe hypercalcemia in women with breast cancer and bone metastases. If hypercalcemia occurs, use of the drug should be stopped and appropriate measures taken to reduce the serum calcium level. 5.6 Visual Abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in women receiving estrogens. Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions, estrogens should be permanently discontinued. 5.7 Addition of a Progestin When a Woman Has Not Had a Hysterectomy Studies of the addition of a progestin for 10 or more days of a cycle of estrogen administration or daily with estrogen in a continuous regimen have reported a lowered incidence of endometrial hyperplasia than would be induced by estrogen treatment alone. Endometrial hyperplasia may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. There are, however, possible risks that may be associated with the use of progestins with estrogens compared to estrogen-alone regimens. These include an increased risk of breast cancer. 5.8 Elevated Blood Pressure In a small number of case reports, substantial increases in blood pressure have been attributed to idiosyncratic reactions to estrogens. In a large, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, a generalized effect of estrogen therapy on blood pressure was not seen. 5.9 Hypertriglyceridemia In women with pre-existing hypertriglyceridemia, estrogen therapy may be associated with elevations of plasma triglycerides leading to pancreatitis. Consider discontinuation of treatment if pancreatitis occurs. 5.10 Hepatic Impairment and/or Past History of Cholestatic Jaundice Estrogens may be poorly metabolized in women with impaired liver function. For women with a history of cholestatic jaundice associated with past estrogen use or with pregnancy, caution should be exercised, and in the case of recurrence, medication should be discontinued. 5.11 Hypothyroidism Estrogen administration leads to increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels. Women with normal thyroid function can compensate for the increased TBG by making more thyroid hormone, thus maintaining free T4 and T3 serum concentrations in the normal range. Women dependent on thyroid hormone replacement therapy who are also receiving estrogens may require increased doses of their thyroid replacement therapy. These women should have their thyroid function monitored in order to maintain their free thyroid hormone levels in an acceptable range. 5.12 Fluid Retention Estrogens plus progestins may cause some degree of fluid retention. Women with conditions that might be influenced by this factor, such as cardiac or renal dysfunction, warrant careful observation when estrogens are prescribed. 5.13 Hypocalcemia Estrogen therapy should be used with caution in women with hypoparathyroidism as estrogen-induced hypocalcemia may occur. 5.14 Exacerbation of Endometriosis A few cases of malignant transformation of residual endometrial implants have been reported in women treated post-hysterectomy with estrogen-alone therapy. For women known to have residual endometriosis post-hysterectomy, the addition of progestin should be considered. 5.15 Angioedema Exogenous estrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of angioedema, particularly in women with hereditary angioedema. 5.16 Exacerbation of Other Conditions Estrogen therapy may cause an exacerbation of asthma, diabetes mellitus, epilepsy, migraine, porphyria, systemic lupus erythematosus, and hepatic hemangiomas and should be used with caution in women with these conditions. 5.17 Laboratory Tests Serum follicle stimulating hormone and estradiol levels have not been shown to be useful in the management of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms and moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy. 5.18 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Accelerated prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet aggregation time; increased platelet count; increased factors II, VII antigen, VIII antigen, VIII coagulant activity, IX, X, XII, VII-X complex, II-VII-X complex, and beta-thromboglobulin; decreased levels of antifactor Xa and antithrombin III, decreased antithrombin III activity; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity; increased plasminogen antigen and activity. Increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone, as measured by protein-bound iodine (PBI), T4 levels (by column or by radioimmunoassay), or T3 levels by radioimmunoassay. T3 resin uptake is decreased, reflecting the elevated TBG. Free T4 and free T3 concentrations are unaltered. Women on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher doses of thyroid hormone. Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum, for example, corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG), sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), leading to increased total circulating corticosteroids and sex steroids, respectively. Free hormone concentrations, such as testosterone and estradiol, may be decreased. Other plasma proteins may be increased (angiotensinogen/renin substrate, alpha-1-antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin). Increased plasma HDL and HDL2 cholesterol subfraction concentrations, reduced LDL cholesterol concentrations, increased triglyceride levels. Impaired glucose tolerance."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Estrogens increase the risk of gallbladder disease (5.4) Discontinue estrogen if severe hypercalcemia, loss of vision, severe hypertriglyceridemia or cholestatic jaundice occurs (5.5, 5.6, 5.9, 5.10) Monitor thyroid function in women on thyroid replacement therapy (5.11, 5.19) 5.1 Cardiovascular Disorders An increased risk of PE, DVT, stroke and MI has been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. An increased risk of stroke and DVT has been reported with estrogen-alone therapy. Should any of these occur or be suspected, estrogen with or without progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. Risk factors for arterial vascular disease (for example, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, and obesity) and/or venous thromboembolism (VTE) (for example, personal history or family history of VTE, obesity, and systemic lupus erythematosus) should be managed appropriately. Stroke In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (33 versus 25 per 10,000 women-years) [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. The increase in risk was demonstrated after the first year and persisted.1 Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, a statistically significant increased risk of stroke was reported in women 50 to 79 years of age receiving daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to women in the same age group receiving placebo (45 versus 33 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in risk was demonstrated in year 1 and persisted [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. Should a stroke occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest no increased risk of stroke for those women receiving CE (0.625 mg)-alone versus those receiving placebo (18 versus 21 per 10,000 women-years).1 Coronary Heart Disease In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, there was a statistically non-significant increased risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) events (defined as nonfatal MI, silent MI, or CHD death) reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (41 versus 34 per 10,000 women-years).1 An increase in relative risk was demonstrated in year 1, and a trend toward decreasing relative risk was reported in years 2 through 5 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, no overall effect on CHD events was reported in women receiving estrogen-alone compared to placebo2 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. Subgroup analyses of women 50 to 59 years of age suggest a statistically non-significant reduction in CHD events (CE [0.625 mg]-alone compared to placebo) in women with less than 10 years since menopause (8 versus 16 per 10,000 women-years).1 In postmenopausal women with documented heart disease (n = 2,763), average 66.7 years of age, in a controlled clinical trial of secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study [HERS]), treatment with daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) demonstrated no cardiovascular benefit. During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with CE plus MPA did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established coronary heart disease. There were more CHD events in the CE plus MPA-treated group than in the placebo group in year 1, but not during subsequent years. Two thousand, three hundred and twenty-one (2,321) women from the original HERS trial agreed to participate in an open label extension of HERS, HERS II. Average follow-up in HERS II was an additional 2.7 years, for a total of 6.8 years overall. Rates of CHD events were comparable among women in the CE plus MPA group and the placebo group in HERS, HERS II, and overall. Venous Thromboembolism In the WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy, a statistically significant 2-fold greater rate of VTE (DVT and PE) was reported in women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) compared to women receiving placebo (35 versus 17 per 10,000 women-years). Statistically significant increases in risk for both DVT (26 versus 13 per 10,000 women-years) and PE (18 versus 8 per 10,000 women-years) were also demonstrated. The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first year and persisted3 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen plus progestin therapy should be discontinued immediately. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, the risk of VTE was increased for women receiving daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone compared to placebo (30 versus 22 per 10,000 women-years), although only the increased risk of DVT reached statistical significance (23 versus 15 per 10,000 women-years). The increase in VTE risk was demonstrated during the first 2 years4 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. Should a VTE occur or be suspected, estrogen-alone therapy should be discontinued immediately. If feasible, estrogens should be discontinued at least 4 to 6 weeks before surgery of the type associated with an increased risk of thromboembolism, or during periods of prolonged immobilization. 5.2 Malignant Neoplasms Breast Cancer The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen plus progestin users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg). After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years, the estrogen plus progestin substudy reported an increased risk of invasive breast cancer in women who took daily CE plus MPA. In this substudy, prior use of estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy was reported by 26 percent of the women. The relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.24, and the absolute risk was 41 versus 33 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.86, and the absolute risk was 46 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. Among women who reported no prior use of hormone therapy, the relative risk of invasive breast cancer was 1.09, and the absolute risk was 40 versus 36 cases per 10,000 women-years, for CE plus MPA compared with placebo. In the same substudy, invasive breast cancers were larger, were more likely to be node positive, and were diagnosed at a more advanced stage in the CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) group compared with the placebo group. Metastatic disease was rare, with no apparent difference between the two groups. Other prognostic factors, such as histologic subtype, grade and hormone receptor status did not differ between the groups5 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. The most important randomized clinical trial providing information about breast cancer in estrogen-alone users is the WHI substudy of daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone. In the WHI estrogen-alone substudy, after an average follow-up of 7.1 years, daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone was not associated with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer [relative risk (RR) 0.80] 6 [see Clinical Studies (14.6)]. Consistent with the WHI clinical trials, observational studies have also reported an increased risk of breast cancer for estrogen plus progestin therapy, and a smaller increased risk for estrogen-alone therapy, after several years of use. The risk increased with duration of use, and appeared to return to baseline over about 5 years after stopping treatment (only the observational studies have substantial data on risk after stopping). Observational studies also suggest that the risk of breast cancer was greater, and became apparent earlier, with estrogen plus progestin therapy as compared to estrogen-alone therapy. However, these studies have not found significant variation in the risk of breast cancer among different estrogen plus progestin combinations, doses, or routes of administration. The use of estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin has been reported to result in an increase in abnormal mammograms requiring further evaluation. All women should receive yearly breast examinations by a healthcare provider and perform monthly breast self-examinations. In addition, mammography examinations should be scheduled based on patient age, risk factors, and prior mammogram results. Endometrial Cancer Endometrial hyperplasia (a possible precursor of endometrial cancer) has been reported to occur at a rate of approximately 1 percent or less with PREMPRO or PREMPHASE. An increased risk of endometrial cancer has been reported with the use of unopposed estrogen therapy in a woman with a uterus. The reported endometrial cancer risk among unopposed estrogen users is about 2 to 12 times greater than in non-users, and appears dependent on duration of treatment and on estrogen dose. Most studies show no significant increased risk associated with use of estrogens for less than 1 year. The greatest risk appears to be associated with prolonged use, with increased risks of 15- to 24-fold for 5 to 10 years or more, and this risk has been shown to persist for at least 8 to 15 years after estrogen therapy is discontinued. Clinical surveillance of all women using estrogen-alone or estrogen plus progestin therapy is important. Adequate diagnostic measures, including directed or random endometrial sampling when indicated, should be undertaken to rule out malignancy in postmenopausal women with undiagnosed persistent or recurring abnormal genital bleeding. There is no evidence that the use of natural estrogens results in a different endometrial risk profile than synthetic estrogens of equivalent estrogen dose. Adding a progestin to estrogen therapy in postmenopausal women has been shown to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia, which may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. Ovarian Cancer The WHI estrogen plus progestin substudy reported a statistically non-significant increased risk of ovarian cancer. After an average follow-up of 5.6 years, the relative risk for ovarian cancer for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 1.58 (95 percent CI, 0.77-3.24). The absolute risk for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 4 versus 3 cases per 10,000 women-years.7 In some epidemiologic studies, the use of estrogen plus progestin and estrogen-only products, in particular for 5 or more years, has been associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. However, the duration of exposure associated with increased risk is not consistent across all epidemiologic studies, and some report no association. 5.3 Probable Dementia In the WHIMS estrogen plus progestin ancillary study of WHI, a population of 4,532 postmenopausal women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg) plus MPA (2.5 mg) or placebo. After an average follow-up of 4 years, 40 women in the CE plus MPA group and 21 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 2.05 (95 percent CI, 1.21-3.48). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE plus MPA versus placebo was 45 versus 22 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.7)]. In the WHIMS estrogen-alone ancillary study of WHI, a population of 2,947 hysterectomized women 65 to 79 years of age was randomized to daily CE (0.625 mg)-alone or placebo. After an average follow-up of 5.2 years, 28 women in the estrogen-alone group and 19 women in the placebo group were diagnosed with probable dementia. The relative risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 1.49 (95 percent CI, 0.83-2.66). The absolute risk of probable dementia for CE-alone versus placebo was 37 versus 25 cases per 10,000 women-years8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.7)]. When data from the two populations in the WHIMS estrogen-alone and estrogen plus progestin ancillary studies were pooled as planned in the WHIMS protocol, the reported overall relative risk for probable dementia was 1.76 (95 percent CI, 1.19-2.60). Since both ancillary studies were conducted in women 65 to 79 years of age, it is unknown whether these findings apply to younger postmenopausal women8 [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5), and Clinical Studies (14.7)]. 5.4 Gallbladder Disease A 2- to 4-fold increase in the risk of gallbladder disease requiring surgery in postmenopausal women receiving estrogens has been reported. 5.5 Hypercalcemia Estrogen administration may lead to severe hypercalcemia in women with breast cancer and bone metastases. If hypercalcemia occurs, use of the drug should be stopped and appropriate measures taken to reduce the serum calcium level. 5.6 Visual Abnormalities Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported in women receiving estrogens. Discontinue medication pending examination if there is sudden partial or complete loss of vision, or a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. If examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions, estrogens should be permanently discontinued. 5.7 Addition of a Progestin When a Woman Has Not Had a Hysterectomy Studies of the addition of a progestin for 10 or more days of a cycle of estrogen administration or daily with estrogen in a continuous regimen, have reported a lowered incidence of endometrial hyperplasia than would be induced by estrogen treatment alone. Endometrial hyperplasia may be a precursor to endometrial cancer. There are, however, possible risks that may be associated with the use of progestins with estrogens compared to estrogen-alone regimens. These include an increased risk of breast cancer. 5.8 Elevated Blood Pressure In a small number of case reports, substantial increases in blood pressure have been attributed to idiosyncratic reactions to estrogens. In a large, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial, a generalized effect of estrogen therapy on blood pressure was not seen. 5.9 Hypertriglyceridemia In women with pre-existing hypertriglyceridemia, estrogen therapy may be associated with elevations of plasma triglycerides leading to pancreatitis. Consider discontinuation of treatment if pancreatitis occurs. 5.10 Hepatic Impairment and/or Past History of Cholestatic Jaundice Estrogens may be poorly metabolized in women with impaired liver function. For women with a history of cholestatic jaundice associated with past estrogen use or with pregnancy, caution should be exercised, and in the case of recurrence, medication should be discontinued. 5.11 Hypothyroidism Estrogen administration leads to increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) levels. Women with normal thyroid function can compensate for the increased TBG by making more thyroid hormone, thus maintaining free T4 and T3 serum concentrations in the normal range. Women dependent on thyroid hormone replacement therapy who are also receiving estrogens may require increased doses of their thyroid replacement therapy. These women should have their thyroid function monitored in order to maintain their free thyroid hormone levels in an acceptable range. 5.12 Fluid Retention Estrogens plus progestins may cause some degree of fluid retention. Women with conditions that might be influenced by this factor, such as cardiac or renal dysfunction, warrant careful observation when estrogens plus progestins are prescribed. 5.13 Hypocalcemia Estrogen therapy should be used with caution in women with hypoparathyroidism as estrogen-induced hypocalcemia may occur. 5.14 Exacerbation of Endometriosis A few cases of malignant transformation of residual endometrial implants have been reported in women treated post-hysterectomy with estrogen-alone therapy. For women known to have residual endometriosis post-hysterectomy, the addition of progestin should be considered. 5.15 Anaphylactic Reaction and Angioedema Cases of anaphylaxis, which developed within minutes to hours after taking PREMPRO or PREMPHASE and require emergency medical management, have been reported in the postmarketing setting. Skin (hives, pruritis, swollen lips-tongue-face) and either respiratory tract (respiratory compromise) or gastrointestinal tract (abdominal pain, vomiting) involvement has been noted. Angioedema involving the tongue, larynx, face, hands, and feet requiring medical intervention has occurred postmarketing in patients taking PREMPRO or PREMPHASE. If angioedema involves the tongue, glottis, or larynx, airway obstruction may occur. Patients who develop an anaphylactic reaction with or without angioedema after treatment with PREMPRO or PREMPHASE should not receive PREMPRO or PREMPHASE again. 5.16 Hereditary Angioedema Exogenous estrogens may exacerbate symptoms of angioedema in women with hereditary angioedema. 5.17 Exacerbation of Other Conditions Estrogen therapy may cause an exacerbation of asthma, diabetes mellitus, epilepsy, migraine, porphyria, systemic lupus erythematosus, and hepatic hemangiomas and should be used with caution in women with these conditions. 5.18 Laboratory Tests Serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and estradiol levels have not been shown to be useful in the management of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms and moderate to severe symptoms of vulvar and vaginal atrophy. 5.19 Drug-Laboratory Test Interactions Accelerated prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet aggregation time; increased platelet count; increased factors II, VII antigen, VIII antigen, VIII coagulant activity, IX, X, XII, VII-X complex, II-VII-X complex, and beta-thromboglobulin; decreased levels of antifactor Xa and antithrombin III, decreased antithrombin III activity; increased levels of fibrinogen and fibrinogen activity; increased plasminogen antigen and activity. Increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) leading to increased circulating total thyroid hormone, as measured by protein-bound iodine (PBI), T4 levels (by column or by radioimmunoassay), or T3 levels by radioimmunoassay. T3 resin uptake is decreased, reflecting the elevated TBG. Free T4 and free T3 concentrations are unaltered. Women on thyroid replacement therapy may require higher doses of thyroid hormone. Other binding proteins may be elevated in serum, for example, corticosteroid binding globulin (CBG), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), leading to increased total circulating corticosteroids and sex steroids, respectively. Free hormone concentrations, such as testosterone and estradiol, may be decreased. Other plasma proteins may be increased (angiotensinogen/renin substrate, alpha-1-antitrypsin, ceruloplasmin). Increased plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and HDL2 cholesterol subfraction concentrations, reduced low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol concentrations, increased triglyceride levels. Impaired glucose tolerance."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Thromboembolic Disorders: Discontinue Depo-Provera CI in patients who develop thrombosis. (5.2) Cancer Risks: Monitor women with a strong family history of breast cancer carefully. (5.3) Ectopic Pregnancy: Consider ectopic pregnancy if a woman using Depo-Provera CI becomes pregnant or complains of severe abdominal pain. (5.4) Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions: Provide emergency medical treatment. (5.5) Liver Function: Discontinue Depo-Provera CI if jaundice or disturbances of liver function develop. (5.6) Carbohydrate Metabolism: Monitor diabetic patients carefully. (5.11) 5.1 Loss of Bone Mineral Density Use of Depo-Provera CI reduces serum estrogen levels and is associated with significant loss of bone mineral density (BMD). This loss of BMD is of particular concern during adolescence and early adulthood, a critical period of bone accretion. It is unknown if use of Depo-Provera CI by younger women will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk for osteoporotic fracture in later life. After discontinuing Depo-Provera CI in adolescents, mean BMD loss at total hip and femoral neck did not fully recover by 60 months (240 weeks) post-treatment [ see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Similarly, in adults, there was only partial recovery of mean BMD at total hip, femoral neck and lumbar spine towards baseline by 24 months post-treatment. [See Clinical Studies (14.2).] Depo-Provera CI should not be used as a long-term birth control method (i.e., longer than 2 years) unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate. BMD should be evaluated when a woman needs to continue to use Depo-Provera CI long-term. In adolescents, interpretation of BMD results should take into account patient age and skeletal maturity. Other birth control methods should be considered in the risk/benefit analysis for the use of Depo-Provera CI in women with osteoporosis risk factors. Depo-Provera CI can pose an additional risk in patients with risk factors for osteoporosis (e.g., metabolic bone disease, chronic alcohol and/or tobacco use, anorexia nervosa, strong family history of osteoporosis or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass such as anticonvulsants or corticosteroids). Although there are no studies addressing whether calcium and Vitamin-D may lessen BMD loss in women using Depo-Provera CI, all patients should have adequate calcium and Vitamin D intake. 5.2 Thromboembolic Disorders There have been reports of serious thrombotic events in women using Depo-Provera CI (150 mg). However, Depo-Provera CI has not been causally associated with the induction of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders. Any patient who develops thrombosis while undergoing therapy with Depo-Provera CI should discontinue treatment unless she has no other acceptable options for birth control. Do not re-administer Depo-Provera CI pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. Do not re-administer if examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions. 5.3 Cancer Risks Breast Cancer Women who have or have had a history of breast cancer should not use hormonal contraceptives, including Depo-Provera CI, because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [see Contraindications (4)]. Women with a strong family history of breast cancer should be monitored with particular care. The results of five large case-control studies1, 2, 3, 4, 5 assessing the association between depo-medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) use and the risk of breast cancer are summarized in Figure 1. Three of the studies suggest a slightly increased risk of breast cancer in the overall population of users; these increased risks were statistically significant in one study. One recent US study1 evaluated the recency and duration of use and found a statistically significantly increased risk of breast cancer in recent users (defined as last use within the past five years) who used DMPA for 12 months or longer; this is consistent with results of a previous study4. Figure 1 Risk estimates for breast cancer in DMPA users Odds ratio estimates were adjusted for the following covariates: Lee et al. (1987): age, parity, and socioeconomic status. Paul et al. (1989): age, parity, ethnic group, and year of interview. WHO (1991): age, center, and age at first live birth. Shapiro et al. (2000): age, ethnic group, socioeconomic status, and any combined estrogen/progestogen oral contraceptive use. Li et al. (2012): age, year, BMI, duration of OC use, number of full-term pregnancies, family history of breast cancer, and history of screening mammography. Based on the published SEER-18 2011 incidence rate (age-adjusted to the 2000 US Standard Population ) of breast cancer for US women, all races, age 20 to 49 years6, a doubling of risk would increase the incidence of breast cancer in women who use Depo-Provera CI from about 72 to about 144 cases per 100,000 women. Figure 1 Cervical Cancer A statistically nonsignificant increase in RR estimates of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer has been associated with the use of Depo-Provera CI in women who were first exposed before the age of 35 years (RR 1.22 to 1.28 and 95% CI 0.93 to 1.70). The overall, nonsignificant relative rate of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer in women who ever used Depo-Provera CI was estimated to be 1.11 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.29). No trends in risk with duration of use or times since initial or most recent exposure were observed. Other Cancers Long-term case-controlled surveillance of users of Depo-Provera CI found no overall increased risk of ovarian or liver cancer. 5.4 Ectopic Pregnancy Be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy among women using Depo-Provera CI who become pregnant or complain of severe abdominal pain. 5.5 Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reaction Anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reaction have been reported with the use of Depo-Provera CI. Institute emergency medical treatment if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.6 Liver Function Discontinue Depo-Provera CI use if jaundice or acute or chronic disturbances of liver function develop. Do not resume use until markers of liver function return to normal and Depo-Provera CI causation has been excluded. 5.7 Convulsions There have been a few reported cases of convulsions in patients who were treated with Depo-Provera CI. Association with drug use or pre-existing conditions is not clear. 5.8 Depression Monitor patients who have a history of depression and do not readminister Depo-Provera CI if depression recurs. 5.9 Bleeding Irregularities Most women using Depo-Provera CI experience disruption of menstrual bleeding patterns. Altered menstrual bleeding patterns include amenorrhea, irregular or unpredictable bleeding or spotting, prolonged spotting or bleeding, and heavy bleeding. Rule out the possibility of organic pathology if abnormal bleeding persists or is severe, and institute appropriate treatment. As women continue using Depo-Provera CI, fewer experience irregular bleeding and more experience amenorrhea. In clinical studies of Depo-Provera CI, by month 12 amenorrhea was reported by 55% of women, and by month 24, amenorrhea was reported by 68% of women using Depo-Provera CI. 5.10 Weight Gain Women tend to gain weight while on therapy with Depo-Provera CI. From an initial average body weight of 136 lb, women who completed 1 year of therapy with Depo-Provera CI gained an average of 5.4 lb. Women who completed 2 years of therapy gained an average of 8.1 lb. Women who completed 4 years gained an average of 13.8 lb. Women who completed 6 years gained an average of 16.5 lb. Two percent of women withdrew from a large-scale clinical trial because of excessive weight gain. 5.11 Carbohydrate Metabolism A decrease in glucose tolerance has been observed in some patients on Depo-Provera CI treatment. Monitor diabetic patients carefully while receiving Depo-Provera CI. 5.12 Lactation Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving Depo-Provera CI. In nursing mothers treated with Depo-Provera CI, milk composition, quality, and amount are not adversely affected. Neonates and infants exposed to medroxyprogesterone from breast milk have been studied for developmental and behavioral effects through puberty. No adverse effects have been noted. 5.13 Fluid Retention Because progestational drugs including Depo-Provera CI may cause some degree of fluid retention, monitor patients with conditions that might be influenced by this condition, such as epilepsy, migraine, asthma, and cardiac or renal dysfunction. 5.14 Return of Fertility Return to ovulation and fertility is likely to be delayed after stopping Depo-Provera CI. In a large US study of women who discontinued use of Depo-Provera CI to become pregnant, data are available for 61% of them. Of the 188 women who discontinued the study to become pregnant, 114 became pregnant. Based on Life-Table analysis of these data, it is expected that 68% of women who do become pregnant may conceive within 12 months, 83% may conceive within 15 months, and 93% may conceive within 18 months from the last injection. The median time to conception for those who do conceive is 10 months following the last injection with a range of 4 to 31 months, and is unrelated to the duration of use. No data are available for 39% of the patients who discontinued Depo-Provera CI to become pregnant and who were lost to follow-up or changed their mind. 5.15 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Patients should be counseled that Depo-Provera CI does not protect against HIV infection (AIDS) and other sexually transmitted diseases. 5.16 Pregnancy Although Depo-Provera CI should not be used during pregnancy, there appears to be little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who have inadvertently been exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate injections in early pregnancy. Neonates exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate in-utero and followed to adolescence showed no evidence of any adverse effects on their health including their physical, intellectual, sexual or social development. 5.17 Monitoring A woman who is taking hormonal contraceptive should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare. 5.18 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of Depo-Provera CI may change the results of some laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. [See Drug Interactions (7.2).]"$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Thromboembolic Disorders: Discontinue Depo-Provera CI in patients who develop thrombosis (5.2) Cancer Risks: Monitor women with breast nodules or a strong family history of breast cancer carefully. (5.3) Ectopic Pregnancy: Consider ectopic pregnancy if a woman using Depo-Provera CI becomes pregnant or complains of severe abdominal pain. (5.4) Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions: Provide emergency medical treatment. (5.5) Liver Function: Discontinue Depo-Provera CI if jaundice or disturbances of liver function develop (5.6) Carbohydrate Metabolism: Monitor diabetic patients carefully. (5.11) 5.1 Loss of Bone Mineral Density Use of Depo-Provera CI reduces serum estrogen levels and is associated with significant loss of bone mineral density (BMD). This loss of BMD is of particular concern during adolescence and early adulthood, a critical period of bone accretion. It is unknown if use of Depo-Provera CI by younger women will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk for osteoporotic fracture in later life. After discontinuing Depo-Provera CI in adolescents, mean BMD loss at total hip and femoral neck did not fully recover by 60 months (240 weeks) post-treatment [ see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Similarly, in adults, there was only partial recovery of mean BMD at total hip, femoral neck and lumbar spine towards baseline by 24 months post-treatment. [ See Clinical Studies (14.2).] Depo-Provera CI should not be used as a long-term birth control method (i.e., longer than 2 years) unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate. BMD should be evaluated when a woman needs to continue to use Depo-Provera CI long-term. In adolescents, interpretation of BMD results should take into account patient age and skeletal maturity. Other birth control methods should be considered in the risk/benefit analysis for the use of Depo-Provera CI in women with osteoporosis risk factors. Depo-Provera CI can pose an additional risk in patients with risk factors for osteoporosis (e.g., metabolic bone disease, chronic alcohol and/or tobacco use, anorexia nervosa, strong family history of osteoporosis or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass such as anticonvulsants or corticosteroids). Although there are no studies addressing whether calcium and Vitamin D may lessen BMD loss in women using Depo-Provera CI, all patients should have adequate calcium and Vitamin D intake. 5.2 Thromboembolic Disorders There have been reports of serious thrombotic events in women using Depo-Provera CI (150 mg). However, Depo-Provera CI has not been causally associated with the induction of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders. Any patient who develops thrombosis while undergoing therapy with Depo-Provera CI should discontinue treatment unless she has no other acceptable options for birth control. Do not re-administer Depo-Provera CI pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. Do not re-administer if examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions. 5.3 Cancer Risks Breast Cancer Women who currently have or have had breast cancer should not use hormone contraceptives, including Depo-Provera CI, because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive. Women with a strong family history of breast cancer or who have breast nodules should be monitored with particular care. A pooled analysis from two case-control studies, the World Health Organization Study and the New Zealand Study, reported the relative risk (RR) of breast cancer for women who had ever used Depo-Provera CI as 1.1 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.97 to 1.4). Overall, there was no increase in risk with increasing duration of use of Depo-Provera CI. The RR of breast cancer for women of all ages who had initiated use of Depo-Provera CI within the previous 5 years was estimated to be 2.0 (95% CI 1.5 to 2.8). The World Health Organization Study, a component of the pooled analysis described above, showed an increased RR of 2.19 (95% CI 1.23 to 3.89) of breast cancer associated with use of Depo-Provera CI in women whose first exposure to drug was within the previous 4 years and who were under 35 years of age. However, the overall RR for ever-users of Depo-Provera CI was 1.2 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.52). The National Cancer Institute reports an average annual incidence rate for breast cancer for US women, all races, age 15 to 34 years of 8.7 per 100,000. A RR of 2.19, thus, increases the possible risk from 8.7 to 19.0 cases per 100,000 women. Cervical Cancer A statistically nonsignificant increase in RR estimates of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer has been associated with the use of Depo-Provera CI in women who were first exposed before the age of 35 years (RR 1.22 to 1.28 and 95% CI 0.93 to 1.70). The overall, nonsignificant relative rate of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer in women who ever used Depo-Provera CI was estimated to be 1.11 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.29). No trends in risk with duration of use or times since initial or most recent exposure were observed. Other Cancers Long-term case-controlled surveillance of users of Depo-Provera CI found no overall increased risk of ovarian or liver cancer. 5.4 Ectopic Pregnancy Be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy among women using Depo-Provera CI who become pregnant or complain of severe abdominal pain. 5.5 Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reaction Anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reaction have been reported with the use of Depo-Provera CI. Institute emergency medical treatment if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.6 Liver Function Discontinue Depo-Provera CI use if jaundice or acute or chronic disturbances of liver function develop. Do not resume use until markers of liver function return to normal and Depo-Provera CI causation has been excluded. 5.7 Convulsions There have been a few reported cases of convulsions in patients who were treated with Depo-Provera CI. Association with drug use or pre-existing conditions is not clear. 5.8 Depression Monitor patients who have a history of depression and do not readminister Depo-Provera CI if depression recurs. 5.9 Bleeding Irregularities Most women using Depo-Provera CI experience disruption of menstrual bleeding patterns. Altered menstrual bleeding patterns include amenorrhea, irregular or unpredictable bleeding or spotting, prolonged spotting or bleeding, and heavy bleeding. Rule out the possibility of organic pathology if abnormal bleeding persists or is severe, and institute appropriate treatment. As women continue using Depo-Provera CI, fewer experience irregular bleeding and more experience amenorrhea. In clinical studies of Depo-Provera CI, by month 12 amenorrhea was reported by 55% of women, and by month 24, amenorrhea was reported by 68% of women using Depo-Provera CI. 5.10 Weight Gain Women tend to gain weight while on therapy with Depo-Provera CI. From an initial average body weight of 136 lb, women who completed 1 year of therapy with Depo-Provera CI gained an average of 5.4 lb. Women who completed 2 years of therapy gained an average of 8.1 lb. Women who completed 4 years gained an average of 13.8 lb. Women who completed 6 years gained an average of 16.5 lb. Two percent of women withdrew from a large-scale clinical trial because of excessive weight gain. 5.11 Carbohydrate Metabolism A decrease in glucose tolerance has been observed in some patients on Depo-Provera CI treatment. Monitor diabetic patients carefully while receiving Depo-Provera CI. 5.12 Lactation Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving Depo-Provera CI. In nursing mothers treated with Depo-Provera CI, milk composition, quality, and amount are not adversely affected. Neonates and infants exposed to medroxyprogesterone from breast milk have been studied for developmental and behavioral effects through puberty. No adverse effects have been noted. 5.13 Fluid Retention Because progestational drugs including Depo-Provera CI may cause some degree of fluid retention, monitor patients with conditions that might be influenced by this condition, such as epilepsy, migraine, asthma, and cardiac or renal dysfunction. 5.14 Return of Fertility Return to ovulation and fertility is likely to be delayed after stopping Depo-Provera CI. In a large US study of women who discontinued use of Depo-Provera CI to become pregnant, data are available for 61% of them. Of the 188 women who discontinued the study to become pregnant, 114 became pregnant. Based on Life-Table analysis of these data, it is expected that 68% of women who do become pregnant may conceive within 12 months, 83% may conceive within 15 months, and 93% may conceive within 18 months from the last injection. The median time to conception for those who do conceive is 10 months following the last injection with a range of 4 to 31 months, and is unrelated to the duration of use. No data are available for 39% of the patients who discontinued Depo-Provera CI to become pregnant and who were lost to follow-up or changed their mind. 5.15 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Patients should be counseled that Depo-Provera CI does not protect against HIV infection (AIDS) and other sexually transmitted diseases. 5.16 Pregnancy Although Depo-Provera CI should not be used during pregnancy, there appears to be little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who have inadvertently been exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate injections in early pregnancy. Neonates exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate in-utero and followed to adolescence showed no evidence of any adverse effects on their health including their physical, intellectual, sexual or social development. 5.17 Monitoring A woman who is taking hormonal contraceptive should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare. 5.18 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of Depo-Provera CI may change the results of some laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. [See Drug Interactions (7.2)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Thromboembolic Disorders: Discontinue medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension in patients who develop thrombosis (5.2) -Cancer Risks: Monitor women with breast nodules or a strong family history of breast cancer carefully. (5.3) -Ectopic Pregnancy: Consider ectopic pregnancy if a woman using medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension becomes pregnant or complains of severe abdominal pain. (5.4) -Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions: Provide emergency medical treatment. (5.5) -Liver Function: Discontinue medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension if jaundice or disturbances of liver function develop (5.6) -Carbohydrate Metabolism: Monitor diabetic patients carefully. (5.11) 5.1 Loss of Bone Mineral Density Use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension reduces serum estrogen levels and is associated with significant loss of bone mineral density (BMD). This loss of BMD is of particular concern during adolescence and early adulthood, a critical period of bone accretion. It is unknown if use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension by younger women will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk for osteoporotic fracture in later life. After discontinuing medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension in adolescents, mean BMD loss at total hip and femoral neck did not fully recover by 60 months (240 weeks) post-treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Similarly, in adults, there was only partial recovery of mean BMD at total hip, femoral neck and lumbar spine towards baseline by 24 months post-treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension should not be used as a long-term birth control method (i.e., longer than 2 years) unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate. BMD should be evaluated when a woman needs to continue to use medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension long-term. In adolescents, interpretation of BMD results should take into account patient age and skeletal maturity. Other birth control methods should be considered in the risk/benefit analysis for the use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension in women with osteoporosis risk factors. Medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension can pose an additional risk in patients with risk factors for osteoporosis (e.g., metabolic bone disease, chronic alcohol and/or tobacco use, anorexia nervosa, strong family history of osteoporosis or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass such as anticonvulsants or corticosteroids). Although there are no studies addressing whether calcium and Vitamin D may lessen BMD loss in women using medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension, all patients should have adequate calcium and Vitamin D intake. 5.2 Thromboembolic Disorders There have been reports of serious thrombotic events in women using medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension (150 mg). However, medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension has not been causally associated with the induction of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders. Any patient who develops thrombosis while undergoing therapy with medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension should discontinue treatment unless she has no other acceptable options for birth control. Do not re-administer medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. Do not re-administer if examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions. 5.3 Cancer Risks Breast Cancer Women who currently have or have had breast cancer should not use hormone contraceptives, including medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension, because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive. Women with a strong family history of breast cancer or who have breast nodules should be monitored with particular care. A pooled analysis from two case-control studies, the World Health Organization Study and the New Zealand Study, reported the relative risk (RR) of breast cancer for women who had ever used medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension as 1.1 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.97 to 1.4). Overall, there was no increase in risk with increasing duration of use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. The RR of breast cancer for women of all ages who had initiated use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension within the previous 5 years was estimated to be 2.0 (95% CI 1.5 to 2.8). The World Health Organization Study, a component of the pooled analysis described above, showed an increased RR of 2.19 (95% CI 1.23 to 3.89) of breast cancer associated with use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension in women whose first exposure to drug was within the previous 4 years and who were under 35 years of age. However, the overall RR for ever-users of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension was 1.2 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.52). The National Cancer Institute reports an average annual incidence rate for breast cancer for US women, all races, age 15 to 34 years, of 8.7 per 100,000. A RR of 2.19, thus, increases the possible risk from 8.7 to 19.0 cases per 100,000 women. Cervical Cancer A statistically non-significant increase in RR estimates of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer has been associated with the use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension in women who were first exposed before the age of 35 years (RR 1.22 to 1.28 and 95% CI 0.93 to 1.70). The overall, non-significant relative rate of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer in women who ever used medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension was estimated to be 1.11 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.29). No trends in risk with duration of use or times since initial or most recent exposure were observed. Other Cancers Long-term case-controlled surveillance of users of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension found no overall increased risk of ovarian or liver cancer. 5.4 Ectopic Pregnancy Be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy among women using medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension who become pregnant or complain of severe abdominal pain. 5.5 Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reaction Anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reaction have been reported with the use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. Institute emergency medical treatment if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.6 Liver Function Discontinue medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension use if jaundice or acute or chronic disturbances of liver function develop. Do not resume use until markers of liver function return to normal and medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension causation has been excluded. 5.7 Convulsions There have been a few reported cases of convulsions in patients who were treated with medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. Association with drug use or pre-existing conditions is not clear. 5.8 Depression Monitor patients who have a history of depression and do not re-administer medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension if depression recurs. 5.9 Bleeding Irregularities Most women using medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension experience disruption of menstrual bleeding patterns. Altered menstrual bleeding patterns include amenorrhea, irregular or unpredictable bleeding or spotting, prolonged spotting or bleeding, and heavy bleeding. Rule out the possibility of organic pathology if abnormal bleeding persists or is severe, and institute appropriate treatment. As women continue using medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension, fewer experience irregular bleeding and more experience amenorrhea. In clinical studies of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension, by month 12 amenorrhea was reported by 55% of women, and by month 24, amenorrhea was reported by 68% of women using medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. 5.10 Weight Gain Women tend to gain weight while on therapy with medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. From an initial average body weight of 136 lb, women who completed 1 year of therapy with medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension gained an average of 5.4 lb. Women who completed 2 years of therapy gained an average of 8.1 lb. Women who completed 4 years gained an average of 13.8 lb. Women who completed 6 years gained an average of 16.5 lb. Two percent of women withdrew from a large-scale clinical trial because of excessive weight gain. 5.11 Carbohydrate Metabolism A decrease in glucose tolerance has been observed in some patients on medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension treatment. Monitor diabetic patients carefully while receiving medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. 5.12 Lactation Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. In nursing mothers treated with medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension, milk composition, quality, and amount are not adversely affected. Neonates and infants exposed to medroxyprogesterone from breast milk have been studied for developmental and behavioral effects through puberty. No adverse effects have been noted. 5.13 Fluid Retention Because progestational drugs including medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension may cause some degree of fluid retention, monitor patients with conditions that might be influenced by this condition, such as epilepsy, migraine, asthma, and cardiac or renal dysfunction. 5.14 Return of Fertility Return to ovulation and fertility is likely to be delayed after stopping medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. In a large US study of women who discontinued use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension to become pregnant, data are available for 61% of them. Of the 188 women who discontinued the study to become pregnant, 114 became pregnant. Based on Life-Table analysis of these data, it is expected that 68% of women who do become pregnant may conceive within 12 months, 83% may conceive within 15 months, and 93% may conceive within 18 months from the last injection. The median time to conception for those who do conceive is 10 months following the last injection with a range of 4 to 31 months, and is unrelated to the duration of use. No data are available for 39% of the patients who discontinued medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension to become pregnant and who were lost to follow-up or changed their mind. 5.15 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Patients should be counseled that medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension does not protect against HIV infection (AIDS) and other sexually transmitted diseases. 5.16 Pregnancy Although medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension should not be used during pregnancy, there appears to be little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who have inadvertently been exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate injections in early pregnancy. Neonates exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate in-utero and followed to adolescence showed no evidence of any adverse effects on their health including their physical, intellectual, sexual or social development. 5.17 Monitoring A woman who is taking hormonal contraceptive should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare. 5.18 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension may change the results of some laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins [see Drug Interactions (7.2)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Thromboembolic Disorders: Discontinue Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in patients who develop thrombosis (5.2) Cancer Risks: Monitor women with breast nodules or a strong family history of breast cancer carefully. (5.3) Ectopic Pregnancy: Consider ectopic pregnancy if a woman using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP becomes pregnant or complains of severe abdominal pain. (5.4) Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions: Provide emergency medical treatment. (5.5) Liver Function: Discontinue Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP if jaundice or disturbances of liver function develop (5.6) Carbohydrate Metabolism: Monitor diabetic patients carefully. (5.11) 5.1 Loss of Bone Mineral Density Use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP reduces serum estrogen levels and is associated with significant loss of bone mineral density (BMD). This loss of BMD is of particular concern during adolescence and early adulthood, a critical period of bone accretion. It is unknown if use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP by younger women will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk for osteoporotic fracture in later life. After discontinuing Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in adolescents, mean BMD loss at total hip and femoral neck did not fully recover by 60 months (240 weeks) post-treatment [ see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Similarly, in adults, there was only partial recovery of mean BMD at total hip, femoral neck and lumbar spine towards baseline by 24 months post-treatment. [ See Clinical Studies (14.2).] Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP should not be used as a long-term birth control method (i.e., longer than 2 years) unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate. BMD should be evaluated when a woman needs to continue to use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP long-term. In adolescents, interpretation of BMD results should take into account patient age and skeletal maturity. Other birth control methods should be considered in the risk/benefit analysis for the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in women with osteoporosis risk factors. Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP can pose an additional risk in patients with risk factors for osteoporosis (e.g., metabolic bone disease, chronic alcohol and/or tobacco use, anorexia nervosa, strong family history of osteoporosis or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass such as anticonvulsants or corticosteroids). Although there are no studies addressing whether calcium and Vitamin D may lessen BMD loss in women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, all patients should have adequate calcium and Vitamin D intake. 5.2 Thromboembolic Disorders There have been reports of serious thrombotic events in women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. However, Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP has not been causally associated with the induction of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders. Any patient who develops thrombosis while undergoing therapy with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP should discontinue treatment unless she has no other acceptable options for birth control. Do not re-administer Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. Do not re-administer if examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions. 5.3 Cancer Risks Breast Cancer Women who currently have or have had breast cancer should not use hormone contraceptives, including Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive. Women with a strong family history of breast cancer or who have breast nodules should be monitored with particular care. A pooled analysis from two case-control studies, the World Health Organization Study and the New Zealand Study, reported the relative risk (RR) of breast cancer for women who had ever used Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP as 1.1 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.97 to 1.4). Overall, there was no increase in risk with increasing duration of use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. The RR of breast cancer for women of all ages who had initiated use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP within the previous 5 years was estimated to be 2.0 (95% CI 1.5 to 2.8). The World Health Organization Study, a component of the pooled analysis described above, showed an increased RR of 2.19 (95% CI 1.23 to 3.89) of breast cancer associated with use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in women whose first exposure to drug was within the previous 4 years and who were under 35 years of age. However, the overall RR for ever-users of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP was 1.2 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.52). The National Cancer Institute reports an average annual incidence rate for breast cancer for US women, all races, age 15 to 34 years of 8.7 per 100,000. A RR of 2.19, thus, increases the possible risk from 8.7 to 19.0 cases per 100,000 women. The attributable risk, thus, is 31.8 per 100,000 women per year. Cervical Cancer A statistically nonsignificant increase in RR estimates of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer has been associated with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in women who were first exposed before the age of 35 years (RR 1.22 to 1.28 and 95% CI 0.93 to 1.70). The overall, nonsignificant relative rate of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer in women who ever used Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP was estimated to be 1.11 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.29). No trends in risk with duration of use or times since initial or most recent exposure were observed. Other Cancers Long-term case-controlled surveillance of users of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP found no overall increased risk of ovarian or liver cancer. 5.4 Ectopic Pregnancy Be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy among women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP who become pregnant or complain of severe abdominal pain. 5.5 Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reaction Anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reaction have been reported with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. Institute emergency medical treatment if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.6 Liver Function Discontinue Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP use if jaundice or acute or chronic disturbances of liver function develop. Do not resume use until markers of liver function return to normal and Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP causation has been excluded. 5.7 Convulsions There have been a few reported cases of convulsions in patients who were treated with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. Association with drug use or pre-existing conditions is not clear. 5.8 Depression Monitor patients who have a history of depression and do not readminister Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP if depression recurs. 5.9 Bleeding Irregularities Most women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP experience disruption of menstrual bleeding patterns. Altered menstrual bleeding patterns include amenorrhea, irregular or unpredictable bleeding or spotting, prolonged spotting or bleeding, and heavy bleeding. Rule out the possibility of organic pathology if abnormal bleeding persists or is severe, and institute appropriate treatment. As women continue using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, fewer experience irregular bleeding and more experience amenorrhea. In clinical studies of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, by month 12 amenorrhea was reported by 55% of women, and by month 24, amenorrhea was reported by 68% of women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. 5.10 Weight Gain Women tend to gain weight while on therapy with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. From an initial average body weight of 136 lb, women who completed 1 year of therapy with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP gained an average of 5.4 lb. Women who completed 2 years of therapy gained an average of 8.1 lb. Women who completed 4 years gained an average of 13.8 lb. Women who completed 6 years gained an average of 16.5 lb. Two percent of women withdrew from a large-scale clinical trial because of excessive weight gain. 5.11 Carbohydrate Metabolism A decrease in glucose tolerance has been observed in some patients on Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP treatment. Monitor diabetic patients carefully while receiving Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. 5.12 Lactation Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. In nursing mothers treated with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, milk composition, quality, and amount are not adversely affected. Neonates and infants exposed to medroxyprogesterone from breast milk have been studied for developmental and behavioral effects through puberty. No adverse effects have been noted. 5.13 Fluid Retention Because progestational drugs including Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP may cause some degree of fluid retention, monitor patients with conditions that might be influenced by this condition, such as epilepsy, migraine, asthma, and cardiac or renal dysfunction. 5.14 Return of Fertility Return to ovulation and fertility is likely to be delayed after stopping Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. In a large US study of women who discontinued use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP to become pregnant, data are available for 61% of them. Of the 188 women who discontinued the study to become pregnant, 114 became pregnant. Based on Life-Table analysis of these data, it is expected that 68% of women who do become pregnant may conceive within 12 months, 83% may conceive within 15 months, and 93% may conceive within 18 months from the last injection. The median time to conception for those who do conceive is 10 months following the last injection with a range of 4 to 31 months, and is unrelated to the duration of use. No data are available for 39% of the patients who discontinued Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP to become pregnant and who were lost to follow-up or changed their mind. 5.15 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Patients should be counseled that Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP does not protect against HIV infection (AIDS) and other sexually transmitted diseases. 5.16 Pregnancy Although Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP should not be used during pregnancy, there appears to be little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who have inadvertently been exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate injections in early pregnancy. Neonates exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate in-utero and followed to adolescence showed no evidence of any adverse effects on their health including their physical, intellectual, sexual or social development. 5.17 Monitoring A woman who is taking hormonal contraceptive should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare. 5.18 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP may change the results of some laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. [See Drug Interactions (7.2)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Thromboembolic Disorders: Discontinue Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in patients who develop thrombosis (5.2) Cancer Risks: Monitor women with breast nodules or a strong family history of breast cancer carefully. (5.3) Ectopic Pregnancy: Consider ectopic pregnancy if a woman using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP becomes pregnant or complains of severe abdominal pain. (5.4) Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions: Provide emergency medical treatment. (5.5) Liver Function: Discontinue Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP if jaundice or disturbances of liver function develop (5.6) Carbohydrate Metabolism: Monitor diabetic patients carefully. (5.11) 5.1 Loss of Bone Mineral Density Use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP reduces serum estrogen levels and is associated with significant loss of bone mineral density (BMD). This loss of BMD is of particular concern during adolescence and early adulthood, a critical period of bone accretion. It is unknown if use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP by younger women will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk for osteoporotic fracture in later life. After discontinuing Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in adolescents, mean BMD loss at total hip and femoral neck did not fully recover by 60 months (240 weeks) post-treatment [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Similarly, in adults, there was only partial recovery of mean BMD at total hip, femoral neck and lumbar spine towards baseline by 24 months post-treatment. [ See Clinical Studies (14.2).] Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP should not be used as a long-term birth control method (i.e., longer than 2 years) unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate. BMD should be evaluated when a woman needs to continue to use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP long-term. In adolescents, interpretation of BMD results should take into account patient age and skeletal maturity. Other birth control methods should be considered in the risk/benefit analysis for the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in women with osteoporosis risk factors. Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP can pose an additional risk in patients with risk factors for osteoporosis (e.g., metabolic bone disease, chronic alcohol and/or tobacco use, anorexia nervosa, strong family history of osteoporosis or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass such as anticonvulsants or corticosteroids). Although there are no studies addressing whether calcium and Vitamin D may lessen BMD loss in women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, all patients should have adequate calcium and Vitamin D intake. 5.2 Thromboembolic Disorders There have been reports of serious thrombotic events in women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. However, Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP has not been causally associated with the induction of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders. Any patient who develops thrombosis while undergoing therapy with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP should discontinue treatment unless she has no other acceptable options for birth control. Do not re-administer Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. Do not re-administer if examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions. 5.3 Cancer Risks Breast Cancer Women who currently have or have had breast cancer should not use hormone contraceptives, including Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive. Women with a strong family history of breast cancer or who have breast nodules should be monitored with particular care. A pooled analysis from two case-control studies, the World Health Organization Study and the New Zealand Study, reported the relative risk (RR) of breast cancer for women who had ever used Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP as 1.1 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.97 to 1.4). Overall, there was no increase in risk with increasing duration of use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. The RR of breast cancer for women of all ages who had initiated use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP within the previous 5 years was estimated to be 2.0 (95% CI 1.5 to 2.8). The World Health Organization Study, a component of the pooled analysis described above, showed an increased RR of 2.19 (95% CI 1.23 to 3.89) of breast cancer associated with use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in women whose first exposure to drug was within the previous 4 years and who were under 35 years of age. However, the overall RR for ever-users of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP was 1.2 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.52). The National Cancer Institute reports an average annual incidence rate for breast cancer for US women, all races, age 15 to 34 years of 8.7 per 100,000. A RR of 2.19, thus, increases the possible risk from 8.7 to 19.0 cases per 100,000 women. The attributable risk, thus, is 31.8 per 100,000 women per year. Cervical Cancer A statistically nonsignificant increase in RR estimates of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer has been associated with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in women who were first exposed before the age of 35 years (RR 1.22 to 1.28 and 95% CI 0.93 to 1.70). The overall, nonsignificant relative rate of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer in women who ever used Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP was estimated to be 1.11 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.29). No trends in risk with duration of use or times since initial or most recent exposure were observed. Other Cancers Long-term case-controlled surveillance of users of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP found no overall increased risk of ovarian or liver cancer. 5.4 Ectopic Pregnancy Be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy among women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP who become pregnant or complain of severe abdominal pain. 5.5 Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reaction Anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reaction have been reported with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. Institute emergency medical treatment if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.6 Liver Function Discontinue Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP use if jaundice or acute or chronic disturbances of liver function develop. Do not resume use until markers of liver function return to normal and Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP causation has been excluded. 5.7 Convulsions There have been a few reported cases of convulsions in patients who were treated with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. Association with drug use or pre-existing conditions is not clear. 5.8 Depression Monitor patients who have a history of depression and do not readminister Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP if depression recurs. 5.9 Bleeding Irregularities Most women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP experience disruption of menstrual bleeding patterns. Altered menstrual bleeding patterns include amenorrhea, irregular or unpredictable bleeding or spotting, prolonged spotting or bleeding, and heavy bleeding. Rule out the possibility of organic pathology if abnormal bleeding persists or is severe, and institute appropriate treatment. As women continue using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, fewer experience irregular bleeding and more experience amenorrhea. In clinical studies of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, by month 12 amenorrhea was reported by 55% of women, and by month 24, amenorrhea was reported by 68% of women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. 5.10 Weight Gain Women tend to gain weight while on therapy with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. From an initial average body weight of 136 lb, women who completed 1 year of therapy with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP gained an average of 5.4 lb. Women who completed 2 years of therapy gained an average of 8.1 lb. Women who completed 4 years gained an average of 13.8 lb. Women who completed 6 years gained an average of 16.5 lb. Two percent of women withdrew from a large-scale clinical trial because of excessive weight gain. 5.11 Carbohydrate Metabolism A decrease in glucose tolerance has been observed in some patients on Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP treatment. Monitor diabetic patients carefully while receiving Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. 5.12 Lactation Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. In nursing mothers treated with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, milk composition, quality, and amount are not adversely affected. Neonates and infants exposed to medroxyprogesterone from breast milk have been studied for developmental and behavioral effects through puberty. No adverse effects have been noted. 5.13 Fluid Retention Because progestational drugs including Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP may cause some degree of fluid retention, monitor patients with conditions that might be influenced by this condition, such as epilepsy, migraine, asthma, and cardiac or renal dysfunction. 5.14 Return of Fertility Return to ovulation and fertility is likely to be delayed after stopping Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. In a large US study of women who discontinued use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP to become pregnant, data are available for 61% of them. Of the 188 women who discontinued the study to become pregnant, 114 became pregnant. Based on Life-Table analysis of these data, it is expected that 68% of women who do become pregnant may conceive within 12 months, 83% may conceive within 15 months, and 93% may conceive within 18 months from the last injection. The median time to conception for those who do conceive is 10 months following the last injection with a range of 4 to 31 months, and is unrelated to the duration of use. No data are available for 39% of the patients who discontinued Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP to become pregnant and who were lost to follow-up or changed their mind. 5.15 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Patients should be counseled that Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP does not protect against HIV infection (AIDS) and other sexually transmitted diseases. 5.16 Pregnancy Although Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP should not be used during pregnancy, there appears to be little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who have inadvertently been exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate injections in early pregnancy. Neonates exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate in-utero and followed to adolescence showed no evidence of any adverse effects on their health including their physical, intellectual, sexual or social development. 5.17 Monitoring A woman who is taking hormonal contraceptive should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare. 5.18 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP may change the results of some laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. [See Drug Interactions (7.2)]."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Thromboembolic Disorders: Discontinue MPA Injectable Suspension, USP in patients who develop thrombosis (5.2) Cancer Risks: Monitor women with a strong family history of breast cancer carefully. (5.3) Ectopic Pregnancy: Consider ectopic pregnancy if a woman using MPA Injectable Suspension, USP becomes pregnant or complains of severe abdominal pain. (5.4) Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions: Provide emergency medical treatment. (5.5) Liver Function: Discontinue MPA Injectable Suspension, USP if jaundice or disturbances of liver function develop (5.6) Carbohydrate Metabolism: Monitor diabetic patients carefully. (5.11) 5.1 Loss of Bone Mineral Density Use of MPA Injectable Suspension, USP reduces serum estrogen levels and is associated with significant loss of bone mineral density (BMD). This loss of BMD is of particular concern during adolescence and early adulthood, a critical period of bone accretion. It is unknown if use of MPA Injectable Suspension, USP by younger women will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk for osteoporotic fracture in later life. After discontinuing MPA Injectable Suspension, USP in adolescents, mean BMD loss at total hip and femoral neck did not fully recover by 60 months (240 weeks) post-treatment [ see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Similarly, in adults, there was only partial recovery of mean BMD at total hip, femoral neck and lumbar spine towards baseline by 24 months post-treatment. [See Clinical Studies (14.2).] MPA Injectable Suspension, USP should not be used as a long-term birth control method (i.e., longer than 2 years) unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate. BMD should be evaluated when a woman needs to continue to use MPA Injectable Suspension, USP long-term. In adolescents, interpretation of BMD results should take into account patient age and skeletal maturity. Other birth control methods should be considered in the risk/benefit analysis for the use of MPA Injectable Suspension, USP in women with osteoporosis risk factors. MPA Injectable Suspension, USP can pose an additional risk in patients with risk factors for osteoporosis (e.g., metabolic bone disease, chronic alcohol and/or tobacco use, anorexia nervosa, strong family history of osteoporosis or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass such as anticonvulsants or corticosteroids). Although there are no studies addressing whether calcium and Vitamin D may lessen BMD loss in women using MPA Injectable Suspension, USP, all patients should have adequate calcium and Vitamin D intake. 5.2 Thromboembolic Disorders There have been reports of serious thrombotic events in women using MPA Injectable Suspension, USP. However, MPA Injectable Suspension, USP has not been causally associated with the induction of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders. Any patient who develops thrombosis while undergoing therapy with MPA Injectable Suspension, USP should discontinue treatment unless she has no other acceptable options for birth control. Do not re-administer MPA Injectable Suspension, USP pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. Do not re-administer if examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions. 5.3 Cancer Risks Breast Cancer Women who have or have had a history of breast cancer should not use hormonal contraceptives, including MPA Injectable Suspension, USP, because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive [see Contraindications (4)]. Women with a strong family history of breast cancer should be monitored with particular care. The results of five large case-control studies1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 assessing the association between depo-medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) use and the risk of breast cancer are summarized in Figure 1. Three of the studies suggest a slightly increased risk of breast cancer in the overall population of users; these increased risks were statistically significant in one study. One recent US study1 evaluated the recency and duration of use and found a statistically significantly increased risk of breast cancer in recent users (defined as last use within the past five years) who used DMPA for 12 months or longer; this is consistent with results of a previous study4. Figure 1 Risk estimates for breast cancer in DMPA users Odds ratio estimates were adjusted for the following covariates: Lee et al. (1987): age, parity, and socioeconomic status. Paul et al. (1989): age, parity, ethnic group, and year of interview. WHO (1991): age, center, and age at first live birth. Shapiro et al. (2000): age, ethnic group, socioeconomic status, and any combined estrogen/progestogen oral contraceptive use. Li et al. (2012): age, year, BMI, duration of OC use, number of full-term pregnancies, family history of breast cancer, and history of screening mammography. Based on the published SEER-18 2011 incidence rate (age-adjusted to the 2000 US Standard Population ) of breast cancer for US women, all races, age 20 to 49 years6, a doubling of risk would increase the incidence of breast cancer in women who use MPA Injectable Suspension, USP from about 72 to about 144 cases per 100,000 women. Figure 1 Cervical Cancer A statistically non-significant increase in RR estimates of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer has been associated with the use of MPA Injectable Suspension, USP in women who were first exposed before the age of 35 years (RR 1.22 to 1.28 and 95% CI 0.93 to 1.70). The overall, non-significant relative rate of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer in women who ever used MPA Injectable Suspension, USP was estimated to be 1.11 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.29). No trends in risk with duration of use or times since initial or most recent exposure were observed. Other Cancers Long-term case-controlled surveillance of users of MPA Injectable Suspension, USP found no overall increased risk of ovarian or liver cancer. 5.4 Ectopic Pregnancy Be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy among women using MPA Injectable Suspension, USP who become pregnant or complain of severe abdominal pain. 5.5 Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reaction Anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reaction have been reported with the use of MPA Injectable Suspension, USP. Institute emergency medical treatment if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. 5.6 Liver Function Discontinue MPA Injectable Suspension, USP use if jaundice or acute or chronic disturbances of liver function develop. Do not resume use until markers of liver function return to normal and MPA Injectable Suspension, USP causation has been excluded. 5.7 Convulsions There have been a few reported cases of convulsions in patients who were treated with MPA Injectable Suspension, USP. Association with drug use or pre-existing conditions is not clear. 5.8 Depression Monitor patients who have a history of depression and do not re-administer MPA Injectable Suspension, USP if depression recurs. 5.9 Bleeding Irregularities Most women using MPA Injectable Suspension, USP experience disruption of menstrual bleeding patterns. Altered menstrual bleeding patterns include amenorrhea, irregular or unpredictable bleeding or spotting, prolonged spotting or bleeding, and heavy bleeding. Rule out the possibility of organic pathology if abnormal bleeding persists or is severe, and institute appropriate treatment. As women continue using MPA Injectable Suspension, USP, fewer experience irregular bleeding and more experience amenorrhea. In clinical studies of MPA Injectable Suspension, USP, by month 12 amenorrhea was reported by 55% of women, and by month 24, amenorrhea was reported by 68% of women using MPA Injectable Suspension, USP. 5.10 Weight Gain Women tend to gain weight while on therapy with MPA Injectable Suspension, USP. From an initial average body weight of 136 lb, women who completed 1 year of therapy with MPA Injectable Suspension, USP gained an average of 5.4 lb. Women who completed 2 years of therapy gained an average of 8.1 lb. Women who completed 4 years gained an average of 13.8 lb. Women who completed 6 years gained an average of 16.5 lb. Two percent of women withdrew from a large-scale clinical trial because of excessive weight gain. 5.11 Carbohydrate Metabolism A decrease in glucose tolerance has been observed in some patients on MPA Injectable Suspension, USP treatment. Monitor diabetic patients carefully while receiving MPA Injectable Suspension, USP. 5.12 Lactation Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving MPA Injectable Suspension, USP. In nursing mothers treated with MPA Injectable Suspension, USP, milk composition, quality, and amount are not adversely affected. Neonates and infants exposed to medroxyprogesterone from breast milk have been studied for developmental and behavioral effects through puberty. No adverse effects have been noted. 5.13 Fluid Retention Because progestational drugs including MPA Injectable Suspension, USP may cause some degree of fluid retention, monitor patients with conditions that might be influenced by this condition, such as epilepsy, migraine, asthma, and cardiac or renal dysfunction. 5.14 Return of Fertility Return to ovulation and fertility is likely to be delayed after stopping MPA Injectable Suspension, USP. In a large US study of women who discontinued use of MPA Injectable Suspension, USP to become pregnant, data are available for 61% of them. Of the 188 women who discontinued the study to become pregnant, 114 became pregnant. Based on Life-Table analysis of these data, it is expected that 68% of women who do become pregnant may conceive within 12 months, 83% may conceive within 15 months, and 93% may conceive within 18 months from the last injection. The median time to conception for those who do conceive is 10 months following the last injection with a range of 4 to 31 months, and is unrelated to the duration of use. No data are available for 39% of the patients who discontinued MPA Injectable Suspension, USP to become pregnant and who were lost to follow-up or changed their mind. 5.15 Sexually Transmitted Diseases Patients should be counseled that MPA Injectable Suspension, USP does not protect against HIV infection (AIDS) and other sexually transmitted diseases. 5.16 Pregnancy Although MPA Injectable Suspension, USP should not be used during pregnancy, there appears to be little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who have inadvertently been exposed to MPA injections in early pregnancy. Neonates exposed to MPA in-utero and followed to adolescence showed no evidence of any adverse effects on their health including their physical, intellectual, sexual or social development. 5.17 Monitoring A woman who is taking hormonal contraceptive should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare. 5.18 Interference with Laboratory Tests The use of MPA Injectable Suspension, USP may change the results of some laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. [See Drug Interactions (7.2).]"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions observed with the use of Depo-Provera CI are discussed in greater detail in the Warnings and Precautions section (5): Loss of Bone Mineral Density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Thromboembolic disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Breast Cancer [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Bleeding Irregularities[see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Weight Gain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >5%) are: menstrual irregularities (bleeding or spotting) 57% at 12 months, 32% at 24 months, abdominal pain/discomfort 11%, weight gain > 10 lbs at 24 months 38%, dizziness 6%, headache 17%, nervousness 11%, decreased libido 6%. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer Inc. at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the two clinical trials with Depo-Provera CI, over 3,900 women, who were treated for up to 7 years, reported the following adverse reactions, which may or may not be related to the use of Depo-Provera CI. The population studied ranges in age from 15 to 51 years, of which 46% were White, 50% Non-White, and 4.9% Unknown race. The patients received 150 mg Depo-Provera CI every 3-months (90 days). The median study duration was 13 months with a range of 1-84 months. Fifty eight percent of patients remained in the study after 13 months and 34% after 24 months. Table 1 Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by More than 5% of Subjects Body SystemBody System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse Reactions (Incidence (%)) Body as a Whole Headache (16.5%) Abdominal pain/discomfort (11.2%) Metabolic/Nutritional Increased weight> 10lbs at 24 months (37.7%) Nervous Nervousness (10.8%) Dizziness (5.6%) Libido decreased (5.5%) Urogenital Menstrual irregularities: (bleeding (57.3% at 12 months, 32.1% at 24 months) amenorrhea (55% at 12 months, 68% at 24 months) Table 2 Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by between 1 and 5% of Subjects Body SystemBody System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse Reactions (Incidence (%)) Body as a Whole Asthenia/fatigue (4.2%) Backache (2.2%) Dysmenorrhea (1.7%) Hot flashes (1.0%) Digestive Nausea (3.3%) Bloating (2.3%) Metabolic/Nutritional Edema (2.2%) Musculoskeletal Leg cramps (3.7%) Arthralgia (1.0%) Nervous Depression (1.5%) Insomnia (1.0%) Skin and Appendages Acne (1.2%) No hair growth/alopecia (1.1%) Rash (1.1%) Urogenital Leukorrhea (2.9%) Breast pain (2.8%) Vaginitis (1.2%) Adverse reactions leading to study discontinuation in >= 2% of subjects: bleeding (8.2%), amenorrhea (2.1%), weight gain (2.0%) 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Depo-Provera CI. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. There have been cases of osteoporosis including osteoporotic fractures reported post-marketing in patients taking Depo-Provera CI. Table 3 Adverse Reactions Reported during Post-Marketing Experience Body SystemBody System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse Reactions Body as a Whole Chest pain, Allergic reactions, Fever, Pain at injection site, Chills, Axillary swelling Cardiovascular Syncope, Tachycardia, Thrombophlebitis, Deep vein thrombosis, Pulmonary embolus, Varicose veins Digestive Changes in appetite, Gastrointestinal disturbances, Jaundice, Excessive thirst, Rectal bleeding Hematologic and Lymphatic Anemia, Blood dyscrasia Musculoskeletal Osteoporosis Nervous Paralysis, Facial palsy, Paresthesia, Drowsiness Respiratory Dyspnea and asthma, Hoarseness Skin and Appendages Hirsutism, Excessive sweating and body odor, Dry skin, Scleroderma Urogenital Cervical cancer, Breast cancer, Lack of return to fertility, Unexpected pregnancy, Prevention of lactation, Changes in breast size, Breast lumps or nipple bleeding, Galactorrhea, Melasma, Chloasma, Increased libido, Uterine hyperplasia, Genitourinary infections, Vaginal cysts, Dyspareunia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions observed with the use of Depo-Provera CI are discussed in greater detail in the Warnings and Precautions section (5): Loss of Bone Mineral Density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Thromboembolic disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Breast Cancer [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Bleeding Irregularities[see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Weight Gain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >5%) are: menstrual irregularities (bleeding or spotting) 57% at 12 months, 32% at 24 months, abdominal pain/discomfort 11%, weight gain > 10 lbs at 24 months 38%, dizziness 6%, headache 17%, nervousness 11%, decreased libido 6%. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer Inc. at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the two clinical trials with Depo-Provera CI, over 3,900 women, who were treated for up to 7 years, reported the following adverse reactions, which may or may not be related to the use of Depo-Provera CI. The population studied ranges in age from 15 to 51 years, of which 46% were White, 50% Non-White, and 4.9% Unknown race. The patients received 150 mg Depo-Provera CI every 3-months (90 days). The median study duration was 13 months with a range of 1-84 months. Fifty eight percent of patients remained in the study after 13 months and 34% after 24 months. Table 1 Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by More than 5% of Subjects Body SystemBody System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse Reactions [Incidence (%)] Body as a Whole Headache (16.5%) Abdominal pain/discomfort (11.2%) Metabolic/Nutritional Increased weight> 10lbs at 24 months (37.7%) Nervous Nervousness (10.8%) Dizziness (5.6%) Libido decreased (5.5%) Urogenital Menstrual irregularities: (bleeding (57.3% at 12 months, 32.1% at 24 months) amenorrhea (55% at 12 months, 68% at 24 months) Table 2 Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by between 1 and 5% of Subjects Body SystemBody System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse Reactions [Incidence (%)] Body as a Whole Asthenia/fatigue (4.2%) Backache (2.2%) Dysmenorrhea (1.7%) Hot flashes (1.0%) Digestive Nausea (3.3%) Bloating (2.3%) Metabolic/Nutritional Edema (2.2%) Musculoskeletal Leg cramps (3.7%) Arthralgia (1.0%) Nervous Depression (1.5%) Insomnia (1.0%) Skin and Appendages Acne (1.2%) No hair growth/alopecia (1.1%) Rash (1.1%) Urogenital Leukorrhea (2.9%) Breast pain (2.8%) Vaginitis (1.2%) Adverse reactions leading to study discontinuation in >= 2% of subjects: bleeding (8.2%), amenorrhea (2.1%), weight gain (2.0%) 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Depo-Provera CI. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. There have been cases of osteoporosis including osteoporotic fractures reported post-marketing in patients taking Depo-Provera CI. Table 3 Adverse Reactions Reported during Post-Marketing Experience Body SystemBody System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse Reactions Body as a Whole Chest pain, Allergic reactions including angioedema, Fever, Pain at injection site, Chills, Axillary swelling Cardiovascular Syncope, Tachycardia, Thrombophlebitis, Deep vein thrombosis, Pulmonary embolus, Varicose veins Digestive Changes in appetite, Gastrointestinal disturbances, Jaundice, Excessive thirst, Rectal bleeding Hematologic and Lymphatic Anemia, Blood dyscrasia Musculoskeletal Osteoporosis Neoplasms Cervical cancer, Breast cancer Nervous Paralysis, Facial palsy, Paresthesia, Drowsiness Respiratory Dyspnea and asthma, Hoarseness Skin and Appendages Hirsutism, Excessive sweating and body odor, Dry skin, Scleroderma Urogenital Lack of return to fertility, Unexpected pregnancy, Prevention of lactation, Changes in breast size, Breast lumps or nipple bleeding, Galactorrhea, Melasma, Chloasma, Increased libido, Uterine hyperplasia, Genitourinary infections, Vaginal cysts, Dyspareunia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions observed with the use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension are discussed in greater detail in the Warnings and Precautions section (5): -Loss of Bone Mineral Density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Thromboembolic disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Breast Cancer [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Bleeding Irregularities[see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] -Weight Gain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence > 5%) are: menstrual irregularities (bleeding or spotting) 57% at 12 months, 32% at 24 months, abdominal pain/discomfort 11%, weight gain > 10 lbs at 24 months 38%, dizziness 6%, headache 17%, nervousness 11%, decreased libido 6%. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact TEVA USA, PHARMACOVIGILANCE at tel: 1-888-838-2872, x6351 or drug.safety@tevausa.com ; or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the two clinical trials with medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension, over 3,900 women, who were treated for up to 7 years, reported the following adverse reactions, which may or may not be related to the use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. The population studied ranges in age from 15 to 51 years, of which 46% were White, 50% Non-White, and 4.9% Unknown race. The patients received 150 mg medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension every 3-months (90 days). The median study duration was 13 months with a range of 1-84 months. Fifty eight percent of patients remained in the study after 13 months and 34% after 24 months. Table 1. Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by More than 5% of Subjects Body System* Adverse Reactions (Incidence (%)) Body as a Whole Headache (16.5%) Abdominal pain/discomfort (11.2%) Metabolic/Nutritional Increased weight > 10 lbs at 24 months (37.7%) Nervous Nervousness (10.8%) Dizziness (5.6%) Libido decreased (5.5%) Urogenital Menstrual irregularities: (bleeding (57.3% at 12 months, 32.1% at 24 months) amenorrhea (55% at 12 months, 68% at 24 months) * Body System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Table 2. Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by between 1 and 5% of Subjects Body System* Adverse Reactions (Incidence (%)) Body as a Whole Asthenia/fatigue (4.2%) Backache (2.2%) Dysmenorrhea (1.7%) Hot flashes (1%) Digestive Nausea (3.3%) Bloating (2.3%) Metabolic/Nutritional Edema (2.2%) Musculoskeletal Leg cramps (3.7%) Arthralgia (1%) Nervous Depression (1.5%) Insomnia (1%) Skin and Appendages Acne (1.2%) No hair growth/alopecia (1.1%) Rash (1.1%) Urogenital Leukorrhea (2.9%) Breast pain (2.8%) Vaginitis (1.2%) * Body System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse reactions leading to study discontinuation in >= 2% of subjects: bleeding (8.2%), amenorrhea (2.1%), weight gain (2.0%) 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. There have been cases of osteoporosis including osteoporotic fractures reported post-marketing in patients taking medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. Table 3. Adverse Reactions Reported during Post-Marketing Experience Body System Adverse Reactions Body as a Whole Chest pain, Allergic reactions, Fever, Pain at injection site, Chills, Axillary swelling Cardiovascular Syncope, Tachycardia, Thrombophlebitis, Deep vein thrombosis, Pulmonary embolus, Varicose veins Digestive Changes in appetite, Gastrointestinal disturbances, Jaundice, Excessive thirst, Rectal bleeding Hematologic and Lymphatic Anemia, Blood dyscrasia Musculoskeletal Osteoporosis Nervous Paralysis, Facial palsy, Paresthesia, Drowsiness Respiratory Dyspnea and asthma, Hoarseness Skin and Appendages Hirsutism, Excessive sweating and body odor, Dry skin, Scleroderma Urogenital Cervical cancer, Breast cancer, Lack of return to fertility, Unexpected pregnancy, Prevention of lactation, Changes in breast size, Breast lumps or nipple bleeding, Galactorrhea, Melasma, Chloasma, Increased libido, Uterine hyperplasia, Genitourinary infections, Vaginal cysts, Dyspareunia * Body System represented from COSTART medical dictionary."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions observed with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP are discussed in greater detail in the Warnings and Precautions section (5): Loss of Bone Mineral Density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Thromboembolic disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Breast Cancer [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Bleeding Irregularities[see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Weight Gain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >5%) are: menstrual irregularities (bleeding or spotting) 57% at 12 months, 32% at 24 months, abdominal pain/discomfort 11%, weight gain > 10 lbs at 24 months 38%, dizziness 6%, headache 17%, nervousness 11%, decreased libido 6%. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer Inc. at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the two clinical trials with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, over 3,900 women, who were treated for up to 7 years, reported the following adverse reactions, which may or may not be related to the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. The population studied ranges in age from 15 to 51 years, of which 46% were White, 50% Non-White, and 4.9% Unknown race. The patients received 150 mg Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP every 3-months (90 days). The median study duration was 13 months with a range of 1-84 months. Fifty eight percent of patients remained in the study after 13 months and 34% after 24 months. Table 1 Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by More than 5% of Subjects Body SystemBody System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse Reactions (Incidence (%)) Body as a Whole Headache (16.5%) Abdominal pain/discomfort (11.2%) Metabolic/Nutritional Increased weight> 10lbs at 24 months (37.7%) Nervous Nervousness (10.8%) Dizziness (5.6%) Libido decreased (5.5%) Urogenital Menstrual irregularities: (bleeding (57.3% at 12 months, 32.1% at 24 months) amenorrhea (55% at 12 months, 68% at 24 months) Table 2 Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by between 1 and 5% of Subjects Body SystemBody System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse Reactions (Incidence (%)) Body as a Whole Asthenia/fatigue (4.2%) Backache (2.2%) Dysmenorrhea (1.7%) Hot flashes (1.0%) Digestive Nausea (3.3%) Bloating (2.3%) Metabolic/Nutritional Edema (2.2%) Musculoskeletal Leg cramps (3.7%) Arthralgia (1.0%) Nervous Depression (1.5%) Insomnia (1.0%) Skin and Appendages Acne (1.2%) No hair growth/alopecia (1.1%) Rash (1.1%) Urogenital Leukorrhea (2.9%) Breast pain (2.8%) Vaginitis (1.2%) Adverse reactions leading to study discontinuation in >= 2% of subjects: bleeding (8.2%), amenorrhea (2.1%), weight gain (2.0%) 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. There have been cases of osteoporosis including osteoporotic fractures reported post-marketing in patients taking Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. Table 3 Adverse Reactions Reported during Post-Marketing Experience Body SystemBody System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse Reactions Body as a Whole Chest pain, Allergic reactions, Fever, Pain at injection site, Chills, Axillary swelling Cardiovascular Syncope, Tachycardia, Thrombophlebitis, Deep vein thrombosis, Pulmonary embolus, Varicose veins Digestive Changes in appetite, Gastrointestinal disturbances, Jaundice, Excessive thirst, Rectal bleeding Hematologic and Lymphatic Anemia, Blood dyscrasia Musculoskeletal Osteoporosis Nervous Paralysis, Facial palsy, Paresthesia, Drowsiness Respiratory Dyspnea and asthma, Hoarseness Skin and Appendages Hirsutism, Excessive sweating and body odor, Dry skin, Scleroderma Urogenital Cervical cancer, Breast cancer, Lack of return to fertility, Unexpected pregnancy, Prevention of lactation, Changes in breast size, Breast lumps or nipple bleeding, Galactorrhea, Melasma, Chloasma, Increased libido, Uterine hyperplasia, Genitourinary infections, Vaginal cysts, Dyspareunia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions observed with the use of MPA Injectable Suspension, USP are discussed in greater detail in the Warnings and Precautions section (5): Loss of Bone Mineral Density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Thromboembolic disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Breast Cancer [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Bleeding Irregularities[see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Weight Gain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >5%) are: menstrual irregularities (bleeding or spotting) 57% at 12 months, 32% at 24 months, abdominal pain/discomfort 11%, weight gain > 10 lbs at 24 months 38%, dizziness 6%, headache 17%, nervousness 11%, decreased libido 6%. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Greenstone LLC at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the two clinical trials with MPA Injectable Suspension, USP, over 3,900 women, who were treated for up to 7 years, reported the following adverse reactions, which may or may not be related to the use of MPA Injectable Suspension, USP. The population studied ranges in age from 15 to 51 years, of which 46% were White, 50% Non-White, and 4.9% Unknown race. The patients received 150 mg MPA Injectable Suspension, USP every 3-months (90 days). The median study duration was 13 months with a range of 1-84 months. Fifty eight percent of patients remained in the study after 13 months and 34% after 24 months. Table 1 Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by More than 5% of Subjects Body SystemBody System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse Reactions [Incidence (%)] Body as a Whole Headache (16.5%) Abdominal pain/discomfort (11.2%) Metabolic/Nutritional Increased weight> 10lbs at 24 months (37.7%) Nervous Nervousness (10.8%) Dizziness (5.6%) Libido decreased (5.5%) Urogenital Menstrual irregularities: (bleeding (57.3% at 12 months, 32.1% at 24 months) amenorrhea (55% at 12 months, 68% at 24 months) Table 2 Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by between 1 and 5% of Subjects Body SystemBody System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse Reactions [Incidence (%)] Body as a Whole Asthenia/fatigue (4.2%) Backache (2.2%) Dysmenorrhea (1.7%) Hot flashes (1.0%) Digestive Nausea (3.3%) Bloating (2.3%) Metabolic/Nutritional Edema (2.2%) Musculoskeletal Leg cramps (3.7%) Arthralgia (1.0%) Nervous Depression (1.5%) Insomnia (1.0%) Skin and Appendages Acne (1.2%) No hair growth/alopecia (1.1%) Rash (1.1%) Urogenital Leukorrhea (2.9%) Breast pain (2.8%) Vaginitis (1.2%) Adverse reactions leading to study discontinuation in >= 2% of subjects: bleeding (8.2%), amenorrhea (2.1%), weight gain (2.0%) 6.2 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of MPA Injectable Suspension, USP. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. There have been cases of osteoporosis including osteoporotic fractures reported post-marketing in patients taking MPA Injectable Suspension, USP. Table 3 Adverse Reactions Reported during Post-Marketing Experience Body SystemBody System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse Reactions Body as a Whole Chest pain, Allergic reactions including angioedema, Fever, Pain at injection site, Chills, Axillary swelling Cardiovascular Syncope, Tachycardia, Thrombophlebitis, Deep vein thrombosis, Pulmonary embolus, Varicose veins Digestive Changes in appetite, Gastrointestinal disturbances, Jaundice, Excessive thirst, Rectal bleeding Hematologic and Lymphatic Anemia, Blood dyscrasia Musculoskeletal Osteoporosis Neoplasms Cervical cancer, Breast cancer Nervous Paralysis, Facial palsy, Paresthesia, Drowsiness Respiratory Dyspnea and asthma, Hoarseness Skin and Appendages Hirsutism, Excessive sweating and body odor, Dry skin, Scleroderma Urogenital Lack of return to fertility, Unexpected pregnancy, Prevention of lactation, Changes in breast size, Breast lumps or nipple bleeding, Galactorrhea, Melasma, Chloasma, Increased libido, Uterine hyperplasia, Genitourinary infections, Vaginal cysts, Dyspareunia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Cardiovascular Disorders [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Breast Cancer [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions, Malignant Neoplasms (5.2)] In a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study, the most common adverse reactions >= 5 percent are: vaginal hemorrhage, vaginitis, vaginal monoliasis, dysmenorrhea, breast enlargement, breast pain and leg cramps (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer Inc at 1-800-934-5556 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Study Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trial of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a 1-year clinical trial that included 678 postmenopausal women treated with PREMPRO and 351 postmenopausal women treated with PREMPHASE, the following adverse events occurred at a rate >= 5 percent, see Table 1. TABLE 1: ALL TREATMENT EMERGENT STUDY EVENTS REGARDLESS OF DRUG RELATIONSHIP REPORTED AT A FREQUENCY >= 5% PREMPRO PREMPRO PREMPHASE Body System 0.625 mg/2.5 mg continuous 0.625 mg/5 mg continuous 0.625 mg/5 mg sequential Adverse event (n = 340) (n = 338) (n = 351) Body As A Whole abdominal pain 16% 21% 23% accidental injury 5% 4% 5% asthenia 6% 8% 10% back pain 14% 13% 16% flu syndrome 10% 13% 12% headache 36% 28% 37% infection 16% 16% 18% pain 11% 13% 12% pelvic pain 4% 5% 5% Digestive System diarrhea 6% 6% 5% dyspepsia 6% 6% 5% flatulence 8% 9% 8% nausea 11% 9% 11% Metabolic and Nutritional peripheral edema 4% 4% 3% Musculoskeletal System arthralgia 9% 7% 9% leg cramps 3% 4% 5% Nervous System depression 6% 11% 11% dizziness 5% 3% 4% hypertonia 4% 3% 3% Respiratory System pharyngitis 11% 11% 13% rhinitis 8% 6% 8% sinusitis 8% 7% 7% Skin and Appendages pruritus 10% 8% 5% rash 4% 6% 4% Urogenital System breast pain 33% 38% 32% cervix disorder 4% 4% 5% dysmenorrhea 8% 5% 13% leukorrhea 6% 5% 9% vaginal hemorrhage 2% 1% 3% vaginitis 7% 7% 5% During the first year of a 2-year clinical trial with postmenopausal women between 40 and 65 years of age (88% Caucasian), 989 postmenopausal women received continuous regimens of PREMPRO, and 332 received placebo tablets. Table 2 summarizes adverse events that occurred at a rate >= 5 percent in at least 1 treatment group. TABLE 2: PERCENT OF PATIENTS WITH TREATMENT EMERGENT STUDY EVENTS REGARDLESS OF DRUG RELATIONSHIP REPORTED AT A FREQUENCY >= 5% DURING STUDY YEAR 1 Body System Prempro 0.625 mg/ 2.5 mg continuous Prempro 0.45 mg/ 1.5 mg continuous Prempro 0.3 mg/ 1.5 mg continuous Placebo daily Adverse event (n = 331) (n = 331) (n = 327) (n = 332) Any adverse event 92% 89% 90% 85% Body As A Whole abdominal pain 17% 16% 13% 11% accidental injury 10% 9% 9% 9% asthenia 8% 8% 6% 5% back pain 12% 13% 12% 12% flu syndrome 8% 11% 10% 11% headache 28% 29% 33% 28% infection 21% 19% 18% 22% pain 14% 15% 20% 18% Digestive System diarrhea 7% 7% 6% 6% dyspepsia 8% 8% 8% 14% flatulence 7% 8% 5% 3% nausea 7% 10% 8% 9% Musculoskeletal System arthralgia 9% 13% 10% 12% leg cramps 7% 5% 4% 2% myalgia 5% 5% 4% 8% Nervous System anxiety 4% 5% 2% 4% depression 11% 5% 8% 7% dizziness 3% 5% 5% 5% insomnia 6% 7% 6% 10% nervousness 3% 2% 2% 2% Respiratory System cough increased 8% 5% 6% 4% pharyngitis 11% 8% 9% 11% rhinitis 8% 9% 10% 13% sinusitis 8% 8% 10% 7% upper respiratory infection 10% 9% 11% 11% Skin and Appendages pruritus 4% 5% 5% 2% Urogenital System breast enlargement 5% 3% 2% <1% breast pain 26% 21% 13% 9% dysmenorrhea 5% 6% 3% <1% leukorrhea 4% 5% 3% 3% vaginal hemorrhage 6% 4% 2% 0% vaginal moniliasis 8% 7% 4% 2% vaginitis 5% 6% 4% 1% 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been reported with PREMPRO or PREMPHASE. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate the frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Genitourinary System Abnormal uterine bleeding, dysmenorrhea/pelvic pain, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata, vaginitis, vaginal candidiasis, amenorrhea, changes in cervical secretion, ovarian cancer, endometrial hyperplasia, endometrial cancer. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea, fibrocystic breast changes, breast cancer. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, superficial thrombophlebitis, myocardial infarction, stroke, increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, bloating, cholestatic jaundice, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, pancreatitis, changes in appetite, ischemic colitis. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, loss of scalp hair, hirsutism, pruritus, urticaria, rash, acne. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance of contact lenses. Central Nervous System (CNS) Headache, migraine, dizziness, mental depression, exacerbation of chorea, mood disturbances, anxiety, irritability, exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia, growth potentiation of benign meningioma. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight, arthralgia, glucose intolerance, edema, changes in libido, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions, exacerbation of asthma, increased triglycerides, hypersensitivity. Additional postmarketing adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving other forms of hormone therapy."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: Cardiovascular Disorders [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Malignant Neoplasms [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] In two prospective, randomized clinical studies, the most common adverse reactions > 5 percent are abdominal pain, asthenia, back pain, headache, flatulence, nausea, depression, pruritus, breast pain, dysmenorrhea, and leukorrhea. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Pfizer Inc. at 1-800-438-1985 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trial of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In a 1-year clinical trial that included 678 postmenopausal women treated with PREMPRO and 351 postmenopausal women treated with PREMPHASE, the following adverse reactions occurred at a rate >= 1 percent, see Table 1. TABLE 1: ALL TREATMENT RELATED ADVERSE REACTIONS AT A FREQUENCY >= 1 PERCENT Body System PREMPRO 0.625 mg/2.5 mg continuous PREMPRO 0.625 mg/5 mg continuous PREMPHASE 0.625 mg/5 mg sequential Adverse event (n = 340) (n = 338) (n = 351) Body As A Whole Abdominal pain 35 (10%) 51 (15%) 58 (17%) Asthenia 13 (4%) 18 (5%) 21 (6%) Back pain 19 (6%) 16 (5%) 23 (7%) Chest pain 5 (1%) 4 (1%) 4 (1%) Flu syndrome 1 (<1%) 1 (<1%) 4 (1%) Generalized edema 12 (4%) 12 (4%) 8 (2%) Headache 64 (19%) 52 (15%) 66 (19%) Infection 2 (<1%) 4 (1)% 0 Moniliasis 4 (1%) 3 (<1%) 4 (1%) Pain 12 (4%) 14 (4%) 15 (4%) Pelvic pain 11 (3%) 13 (4%) 16 (5%) Cardiovascular System Hypertension 7 (2%) 7 (2%) 6 (2%) Migraine 6 (2%) 8 (2%) 7 (2%) Palpitation 2 (<1%) 3 (<1%) 4 (1%) Vasodilatation 2 (<1%) 7 (2%) 2 (<1%) Digestive System Diarrhea 4 (1%) 3 (<1%) 7 (2%) Dyspepsia 5 (1%) 5 (1%) 7 (2%) Eructation 0 2 (<1%) 4 (1%) Flatulence 25 (7%) 27 (8%) 24 (7%) Increased appetite 1 (<1%) 5 (1%) 5 (1%) Nausea 26 (8%) 19 (6%) 26 (7%) Metabolic and Nutritional Edema 5 (1%) 6 (2%) 3 (<1%) Glucose tolerance decreased 2 (<1%) 5 (1%) 4 (1%) Peripheral edema 11 (3%) 10 (3%) 11 (3%) Weight gain 9 (3%) 10 (3%) 11 (3%) Musculoskeletal System Arthralgia 6 (2%) 2 (<1%) 7 (2%) Leg cramps 8 (2%) 11 (3%) 12 (3%) Nervous System Depression 14 (4%) 26 (8%) 29 (8%) Dizziness 9 (3%) 8 (2%) 7 (2%) Emotional lability 5 (1%) 5 (1%) 6 (2%) Hypertonia 4 (1%) 4 (1%) 7 (2%) Insomnia 7 (2%) 6 (2%) 4 (1%) Nervousness 4 (1%) 9 (3%) 6 (2%) Skin and Appendages Acne 1 (<1%) 5 (1%) 4 (1%) Alopecia 3 (<1%) 4 (1%) 0 Dry skin 2 (<1%) 3 (<1%) 4 (1%) Pruritus 20 (6%) 18 (5%) 13 (4%) Rash 8 (2%) 6 (2%) 7 (2%) Sweating 2 (<1%) 4 (1%) 2 (<1%) Urogenital System Breast engorgement 5 (1%) 5 (1%) 0 Breast enlargement 14 (4%) 14 (4%) 14 (4%) Breast neoplasm 2 (<1%) 2 (<1%) 4 (1%) Breast pain 110 (32%) 123 (36%) 109 (31%) Cervix disorder 10 (3%) 6 (2%) 10 (3%) Dysmenorrhea 26 (8%) 18 (5%) 44 (13%) Leukorrhea 19 (6%) 13 (4%) 29 (8%) Menstrual disorder 7 (2%) 1 (<1%) 5 (1%) Menorrhagia 0 1 (<1%) 5 (1%) Metrorrhagia 13 (4%) 5 (1%) 7 (1%) Papanicolaou smear suspicious 5 (1%) 0 8 (2%) Urinary incontinence 4 (1%) 2 (<1%) 1 (<1%) Uterine spasm 7 (2%) 4 (1%) 7 (2%) Vaginal hemorrhage 5 (1%) 3 (<1%) 8 (2%) Vaginal moniliasis 5 (1%) 6 (2%) 7 (2%) Vaginitis 13 (4%) 13 (4%) 10 (3%) In addition, phargyngitis and sinusitis were reported as two of the more frequent adverse events (>5 percent) in the PREMPRO clinical study. For pharyngitis, of the 121 events, six events were considered by the investigator causally related to study drug. For sinusitis, of the 73 events, one event was considered as casually related to study drug. During the first year of a 2-year clinical trial with postmenopausal women between 40 and 65 years of age (88 percent Caucasian), 989 postmenopausal women received continuous regimens of PREMPRO, and 332 received placebo tablets. Table 2 summarizes adverse reactions that occurred at a rate >= 1 percent in at least 1 treatment group. TABLE 2: ALL TREATMENT RELATED ADVERSE REACTIONS AT A FREQUENCY OF >= 1 PERCENT Body System Adverse event PREMPRO 0.625/2.5 continuous (N=331) PREMPRO 0.45/1.5 continuous (N=331) PREMPRO 0.3/1.5 continuous (N=327) PLACEBO daily (N=332) Any adverse event 214 (65) 208 (63) 188 (57) 164 (49) Body as a Whole Abdominal pain 38 (11) 33 (10) 24 (7) 21 (6) Asthenia 11 (3) 11 (3) 12 (4) 3 (1) Back pain 12 (4) 12 (4) 8 (2) 4 (1) Chest pain 4 (1) 2 (1) 1 (0) 2 (1) Generalized edema 7 (2) 5 (2) 6 (2) 8 (2) Headache 45 (14) 45 (14) 57 (17) 46 (14) Moniliasis 3 (1) 6 (2) 4 (1) 1 (0) Pain 9 (3) 10 (3) 17 (5) 14 (4) Pelvic pain 9 (3) 7 (2) 5 (2) 4 (1) Cardiovascular System Hypertension 2 (1) 3 (1) 1 (0) 5 (2) Migraine 11 (3) 8 (2) 5 (2) 3 (1) Palpitation 1 (0) 1 (0) 2 (1) 4 (1) Vasodilatation 0 3 (1) 1 (0) 5 (2) Digestive System Constipation 5 (2) 7 (2) 6 (2) 3 (1) Diarrhea 5 (2) 2 (1) 6 (2) 8 (2) Dyspepsia 10 (3) 9 (3) 6 (2) 14 (4) Flatulence 16 (5) 18 (5) 13 (4) 8 (2) Increased appetite 6 (2) 2 (1) 0 2 (1) Nausea 13 (4) 13 (4) 16 (5) 16 (5) Metabolic and nutritional Peripheral edema 7 (2) 8 (2) 4 (1) 3 (1) Weight gain 9 (3) 8 (2) 6 (2) 14 (4) Musculoskeletal System Arthralgia 2 (1) 3 (1) 3 (1) 5 (2) Leg cramps 13 (4) 7 (2) 10 (3) 4 (1) Nervous System Anxiety 5 (2) 4 (1) 1 (0) 4 (1) Depression 23 (7) 11 (3) 11 (3) 17 (5) Dizziness 3 (1) 8 (2) 6 (2) 5 (2) Emotional lability 10 (3) 10 (3) 9 (3) 8 (2) Insomnia 8 (2) 7 (2) 9 (3) 14 (4) Nervousness 6 (2) 3 (1) 4 (1) 6 (2) Skin and Appendages Acne 7 (2) 3 (1) 0 3 (1) Alopecia 1 (0) 6 (2) 4 (1) 2 (1) Pruritus 8 (2) 10 (3) 9 (3) 3 (1) Rash 0 6 (2) 4 (1) 2 (1) Skin discoloration 5 (2) 1 (0) 3 (1) 1 (0) Sweating 3 (1) 1 (0) 0 4 (1) Urogenital System Breast disorder 7 (2) 6 (2) 5 (2) 6 (2) Breast enlargement 18 (5) 9 (3) 5 (2) 3 (1) Breast neoplasm 8 (2) 7 (2) 5 (2) 7 (2) Breast pain 87 (26) 66 (20) 41 (13) 26 (8) Cervix disorder 7 (2) 2 (1) 2 (1) 0 Dysmenorrhea 14 (4) 18 (5) 9 (3) 2 (1) Hematuria 4 (1) 3 (1) 1 (0) 2 (1) Leukorrhea 7 (2) 14 (4) 9 (3) 6 (2) Metrorrhagia 7 (2) 14 (4) 4 (1) 1 (0) Urinary tract infection 0 1 (0) 1 (0) 4 (1) Uterine spasm 13 (4) 11 (3) 7 (2) 2 (1) Vaginal dryness 2 (1) 1 (0) 0 6 (2) Vaginal hemorrhage 18 (5) 14 (4) 7 (2) 0 Vaginal moniliasis 13 (4) 11 (3) 8 (2) 5 (2) Vaginitis 6 (2) 8 (2) 7 (2) 1 (0) In addition, the following events were considered as related to the study drug with an incidence less than 1 percent, including accidental injury, infection, myalgia, cough increased, rhinitis, sinusitis, and upper respiratory infection. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of PREMPRO or PREMPHASE. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Genitourinary System Abnormal uterine bleeding, dysmenorrhea or pelvic pain, increase in size of uterine leiomyomata, vaginitis, vaginal candidiasis, amenorrhea, changes in cervical secretion, ovarian cancer, endometrial hyperplasia, endometrial cancer. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea, fibrocystic breast changes, breast cancer. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, superficial thrombophlebitis, myocardial infarction, stroke, increase in blood pressure. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, bloating, cholestatic jaundice, increased incidence of gallbladder disease, pancreatitis, changes in appetite, ischemic colitis. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, loss of scalp hair, hirsutism, pruritus, urticaria, rash, acne. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance of contact lenses. Central Nervous System Headache, migraine, dizziness, mental depression, exacerbation of chorea, mood disturbances, anxiety, irritability, exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia, growth potentiation of benign meningioma. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight, arthralgia, glucose intolerance, edema, changes in libido, exacerbation of asthma, increased triglycerides, hypersensitivity. Additional postmarketing adverse reactions have been reported in patients receiving other forms of hormone therapy."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Data from a single-dose drug-drug interaction study involving conjugated estrogens and medroxyprogesterone acetate indicate that the pharmacokinetic disposition of both drugs is not altered when the drugs are coadministered. No other clinical drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with CE plus MPA. Inducers and/or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism (7.1) Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with MPA may significantly depress the bioavailability of medroxyprogesterone acetate (7.1) 7.1 Metabolic Interactions In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) preparations, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin, may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice, may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects. Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with MPA may significantly depress the bioavailability of MPA."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Data from a single-dose drug-drug interaction study involving conjugated estrogens and medroxyprogesterone acetate indicate that the pharmacokinetic disposition of both drugs is not altered when the drugs are coadministered. No other clinical drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with CE plus MPA. Inducers and/or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism (7) Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with MPA may significantly depress the bioavailability of medroxyprogesterone acetate (7) 7.1 Metabolic Interactions In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that estrogens are metabolized partially by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A4 may affect estrogen drug metabolism. Inducers of CYP3A4, such as St. John's Wort (Hypericum perforatum) preparations, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, and rifampin, may reduce plasma concentrations of estrogens, possibly resulting in a decrease in therapeutic effects and/or changes in the uterine bleeding profile. Inhibitors of CYP3A4, such as erythromycin, clarithromycin, ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir and grapefruit juice, may increase plasma concentrations of estrogens and may result in side effects. Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with MPA may significantly depress the bioavailability of MPA."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of contraceptive drug products. Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Depo-Provera CI. (7.1) 7.1 Changes in Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated with Co-Administration of Other Products If a woman on hormonal contraceptives takes a drug or herbal product that induces enzymes, including CYP3A4, that metabolize contraceptive hormones, counsel her to use additional contraception or a different method of contraception. Drugs or herbal products that induce such enzymes may decrease the plasma concentrations of contraceptive hormones, and may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include: barbiturates bosentan carbamazepine felbamate griseofulvin oxcarbazepine phenytoin rifampin St. John's wort topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration of HIV protease inhibitors. Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of the progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Antibiotics: There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics, but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids. Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. 7.2 Laboratory Test Interactions The pathologist should be advised of progestin therapy when relevant specimens are submitted. The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including Depo-Provera CI: (a) Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased (e.g., progesterone, estradiol, pregnanediol, testosterone, cortisol). (b)Gonadotropin levels are decreased. (c)Sex-hormone-binding-globulin concentrations are decreased. (d)Protein-bound iodine and butanol extractable protein-bound iodine may increase. T3-uptake values may decrease. (e)Coagulation test values for prothrombin (Factor II), and Factors VII, VIII, IX, and X may increase. (f)Sulfobromophthalein and other liver function test values may be increased. (g)The effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate on lipid metabolism are inconsistent. Both increases and decreases in total cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol have been observed in studies."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of contraceptive drug products. Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension. (7.1) 7.1 Changes in Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated with Coadministration of Other Products If a woman on hormonal contraceptives takes a drug or herbal product that induces enzymes, including CYP3A4, that metabolize contraceptive hormones, counsel her to use additional contraception or a different method of contraception. Drugs or herbal products that induce such enzymes may decrease the plasma concentrations of contraceptive hormones, and may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include: -barbiturates -bosentan -carbamazepine -felbamate -griseofulvin -oxcarbazepine -phenytoin -rifampin -St. John's wort -topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration of HIV protease inhibitors. Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of the progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Antibiotics There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics, but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids. Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. 7.2 Laboratory Test Interactions The pathologist should be advised of progestin therapy when relevant specimens are submitted. The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including medroxyprogesterone acetate injectable suspension: (a) Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased (e.g., progesterone, estradiol, pregnanediol, testosterone, cortisol). (b) Gonadotropin levels are decreased. (c) Sex-hormone-binding-globulin concentrations are decreased. (d) Protein-bound iodine and butanol extractable protein-bound iodine may increase. T3-uptake values may decrease. (e) Coagulation test values for prothrombin (Factor II), and Factors VII, VIII, IX, and X may increase. (f) Sulfobromophthalein and other liver function test values may be increased. (g) The effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate on lipid metabolism are inconsistent. Both increases and decreases in total cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol have been observed in studies."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of contraceptive drug products. Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. (7.1) 7.1 Changes in Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated with Co-Administration of Other Products If a woman on hormonal contraceptives takes a drug or herbal product that induces enzymes, including CYP3A4, that metabolize contraceptive hormones, counsel her to use additional contraception or a different method of contraception. Drugs or herbal products that induce such enzymes may decrease the plasma concentrations of contraceptive hormones, and may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include: barbiturates bosentan carbamazepine felbamate griseofulvin oxcarbazepine phenytoin rifampin St. John's wort topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration of HIV protease inhibitors. Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of the progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Antibiotics: There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics, but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids. Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. 7.2 Laboratory Test Interactions The pathologist should be advised of progestin therapy when relevant specimens are submitted. The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP: (a) Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased (e.g., progesterone, estradiol, pregnanediol, testosterone, cortisol). (b) Gonadotropin levels are decreased. (c) Sex-hormone-binding-globulin concentrations are decreased. (d) Protein-bound iodine and butanol extractable protein-bound iodine may increase. T3-uptake values may decrease. (e)Coagulation test values for prothrombin (Factor II), and Factors VII, VIII, IX, and X may increase. (f) Sulfobromophthalein and other liver function test values may be increased. (g) The effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate on lipid metabolism are inconsistent. Both increases and decreases in total cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol have been observed in studies."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of contraceptive drug products. Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. (7.1) 7.1 Changes in Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated with Co-Administration of Other Products If a woman on hormonal contraceptives takes a drug or herbal product that induces enzymes, including CYP3A4, that metabolize contraceptive hormones, counsel her to use additional contraception or a different method of contraception. Drugs or herbal products that induce such enzymes may decrease the plasma concentrations of contraceptive hormones, and may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include: barbiturates bosentan carbamazepine felbamate griseofulvin oxcarbazepine phenytoin rifampin St. John's wort topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration of HIV protease inhibitors. Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of the progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Antibiotics: There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics, but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids. Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. 7.2 Laboratory Test Interactions The pathologist should be advised of progestin therapy when relevant specimens are submitted. The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP: (a)Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased (e.g., progesterone, estradiol, pregnanediol, testosterone, cortisol). (b)Gonadotropin levels are decreased. (c)Sex-hormone-binding-globulin concentrations are decreased. (d)Protein-bound iodine and butanol extractable protein-bound iodine may increase. T3-uptake values may decrease. (e)Coagulation test values for prothrombin (Factor II), and Factors VII, VIII, IX, and X may increase. (f)Sulfobromophthalein and other liver function test values may be increased. (g)The effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate on lipid metabolism are inconsistent. Both increases and decreases in total cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol have been observed in studies."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of contraceptive drug products. Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with MPA Injectable Suspension, USP. (7.1) 7.1 Changes in Contraceptive Effectiveness Associated with Co-Administration of Other Products If a woman on hormonal contraceptives takes a drug or herbal product that induces enzymes, including CYP3A4, that metabolize contraceptive hormones, counsel her to use additional contraception or a different method of contraception. Drugs or herbal products that induce such enzymes may decrease the plasma concentrations of contraceptive hormones, and may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include: barbiturates bosentan carbamazepine felbamate griseofulvin oxcarbazepine phenytoin rifampin St. John's wort topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration of HIV protease inhibitors. Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of the progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Antibiotics: There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics, but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids. Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. 7.2 Laboratory Test Interactions The pathologist should be advised of progestin therapy when relevant specimens are submitted. The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including MPA Injectable Suspension, USP: (a)Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased (e.g., progesterone, estradiol, pregnanediol, testosterone, cortisol). (b)Gonadotropin levels are decreased. (c)Sex-hormone-binding-globulin concentrations are decreased. (d)Protein-bound iodine and butanol extractable protein-bound iodine may increase. T3-uptake values may decrease. (e)Coagulation test values for prothrombin (Factor II), and Factors VII, VIII, IX, and X may increase. (f)Sulfobromophthalein and other liver function test values may be increased. (g)The effects of MPA on lipid metabolism are inconsistent. Both increases and decreases in total cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol have been observed in studies."$$
"9. Drug Interactions No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with depo-subQ provera 104. Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with depo-subQ provera 104 may significantly decrease the serum concentrations of MPA."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Breast- Breast tenderness or galactorrhea has been reported. Skin- Sensitivity reactions consisting of urticaria, pruritus, edema and generalized rash have occurred. Acne, alopecia and hirsutism have been reported. Thromboembolic Phenomena- Thromboembolic phenomena including thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism have been reported. Other- The following adverse reactions have been observed in women taking progestins, including medroxyprogesterone acetate tablets: breakthrough bleeding cholestatic jaundice spotting anaphylactoid change in menstrual flow reactions and anaphylaxis amenorrhea rash (allergic) with edema and without pruritus change in weight mental depression (increase or decrease) pyrexia changes in cervical insomnia erosion and cervical nausea secretions somnolence Although available evidence is suggestive of an association, such a relationship has been neither confirmed nor refuted for the following serious adverse reactions: neuro-ocular lesions, eg, retinal thrombosis and optic neuritis. The following adverse reactions have been observed in patients receiving estrogen-progestin combination drugs: rise in blood pressure in fatigue susceptible individuals backache premenstrual-like syndrome hirsutism changes in libido loss of scalp hair changes in appetite erythema multiforme cystitis-like syndrome erythema nodosum headache hemorrhagic eruption nervousness itching dizziness Laboratory Tests- The following laboratory results may be altered by the use of estrogen-progestin combination drugs: Increased sulfobromophthalein retention and other hepatic function tests. Coagulation tests: increase in prothrombin factors VII, VIII, IX and X. Metyrapone test. Pregnanediol determination. Thyroid function: increase in PBI, and butanol extractable protein bound iodine and decrease in T3 uptake values."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In five clinical studies of depo-subQ provera 104 involving 2,325 women (282 treated for up to 6 months, 1,780 treated for up to 1 year and 263 treated for up to 2 years), 9% of women discontinued treatment for adverse reactions. Among these 212 women, the most common reasons for discontinuation were: Uterine bleeding irregularities (35%, n=75) Increased weight (18%, n=39) Decreased libido (11%, n=23) Acne (10%, n=21) Injection site reactions (6%, n=12) Adverse reactions reported by 5% or more of all women in these clinical trials included: Headache (9%) Intermenstrual bleeding (7%) Increased weight (6%) Amenorrhea (6%) Injection site reactions (5%) Adverse reactions reported by 1% to <5% of all women in these clinical trials included: General disorders: fatigue, injection site pain Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal distention, abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea Infections: bronchitis, influenza, nasopharyngitis, pharyngitis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, vaginal candidiasis, vaginitis, vaginitis bacterial Investigations: abnormal cervix smear Musculoskeletal, connective tissue, and bone disorders: arthralgia, back pain, limb pain Nervous system disorders: dizziness, insomnia Psychiatric disorders: anxiety, depression, irritability, decreased libido Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast pain, breast tenderness, dysmenorrhea, menometrorrhagia, menorrhagia, menstruation irregular, uterine hemorrhage, vaginal hemorrhage Skin disorders: acne Vascular disorders: hot flushes Postmarketing Experience There have been rare cases of osteoporosis including osteoporotic fractures reported postmarketing in patients taking DEPO-PROVERA Contraceptive Injection. In addition, infrequent voluntary reports of anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reaction have been received associated with use of Depo-Provera CI (150 mg). The following additional reactions have been reported with Depo-Provera Contraceptive Injection and may occur with use of depo-subQ provera 104: General disorders: asthenia, axillary swelling, chills, chest pain, fever, excessive thirst Blood and lymphatic system disorders: anemia, blood dyscrasia Cardiac disorders: tachycardia Gastrointestinal disorders: gastrointestinal disturbances, rectal bleeding Hepato-biliary disorders: jaundice Immune system disorders: allergic reaction Infections: genitourinary infections Investigations: decreased glucose tolerance Musculoskeletal, connective tissue, and bone disorders: loss of bone mineral density, scleroderma Neoplasms: breast cancer, cervical cancer Nervous system disorders: convulsions, facial palsy, fainting, paralysis, paresthesia, somnolence Psychiatric disorders: increased libido, nervousness Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast lumps, galactorrhea, nipple discharge or bleeding, oligomenorrhea, prevention of lactation, prolonged anovulation, unexpected pregnancy, uterine hyperplasia, vaginal cyst Respiratory disorders: asthma, dyspnea, hoarseness Skin disorders: angioedema, dry skin, increased body odor, melasma, pruritus, urticaria Vascular disorders: deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolus, thrombophlebitis"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In the largest clinical trial with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, over 3,900 women, who were treated for up to 7 years, reported the following adverse reactions, which may or may not be related to the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. The following adverse reactions were reported by more than 5% of subjects: Menstrual irregularities (bleeding or amenorrhea, or both) Abdominal pain or discomfort Weight changes Dizziness Headache Asthenia (weakness or fatigue) Nervousness Adverse reactions reported by 1% to 5% of subjects using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP were: Decreased libido or anorgasmia Pelvic pain Backache Breast pain Leg cramps No hair growth or alopecia Depression Bloating Nausea Rash Insomnia Edema Leukorrhea Hot flashes Acne Arthralgia Vaginitis Events reported by fewer than 1% of subjects included: galactorrhea, melasma, chloasma, convulsions, changes in appetite, gastrointestinal disturbances, jaundice, genitourinary infections, vaginal cysts, dyspareunia, paresthesia, chest pain, pulmonary embolus, allergic reactions, anemia, drowsiness, syncope, dyspnea and asthma, tachycardia, fever, excessive sweating and body odor, dry skin, chills, increased libido, excessive thirst, hoarseness, pain at injection site, blood dyscrasia, rectal bleeding, changes in breast size, breast lumps or nipple bleeding, axillary swelling, breast cancer, prevention of lactation, sensation of pregnancy, lack of return to fertility, paralysis, facial palsy, scleroderma, osteoporosis, uterine hyperplasia, cervical cancer, varicose veins, dysmenorrhea, hirsutism, unexpected pregnancy, thrombophlebitis, deep vein thrombosis. Postmarketing Experience There have been rare cases of osteoporosis including osteoporotic fractures reported postmarketing in patients taking Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. In addition, there have been voluntary reports of anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reaction associated with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS , WARNINGS, and PRECAUTIONS. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The following adverse reactions have been reported in women taking medroxyprogesterone acetate tablets, without concomitant estrogens treatment: 1. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding (irregular, increase, decrease), change in menstrual flow, breakthrough bleeding, spotting, amenorrhea, changes in cervical erosion and cervical secretions. 2. Breasts Breast tenderness, mastodynia or galactorrhea has been reported. 3. Cardiovascular Thromboembolic disorders including thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism have been reported. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, cholestatic jaundice. 5. Skin Sensitivity reactions consisting of urticaria, pruritus, edema and generalized rash have occurred. Acne, alopecia and hirsutism have been reported. 6. Eyes Neuro-ocular lesions, for example, retinal thrombosis, and optic neuritis. 7. Central nervous system Mental depression, insomnia, somnolence, dizziness, headache, nervousness. 8. Miscellaneous Hypersensitivity reactions (for example, anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema), rash (allergic) with and without pruritus, change in weight (increase or decrease), pyrexia, edema/fluid retention, fatigue, decreased glucose tolerance. The following adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. 1. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding/spotting, or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrheal/pelvic pain; increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer. 2. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. 3. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting; abdominal cramps, bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis; enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. 5. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. 6. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance to contact lenses. 7. Central nervous system Headache; migraine; dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. 8. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthalgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaplylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS . Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice The following adverse reactions have been reported in women taking MPA tablets, without concomitant estrogens treatment: 1. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding (irregular, increase, decrease), change in menstrual flow, breakthrough bleeding, spotting, amenorrhea, changes in cervical erosion and cervical secretions. 2. Breasts Breast tenderness, mastodynia or galactorrhea has been reported. 3. Cardiovascular Thromboembolic disorders including thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism have been reported. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, cholestatic jaundice. 5. Skin Sensitivity reactions consisting of urticaria, pruritus, edema and generalized rash have occurred. Acne, alopecia and hirsutism have been reported. 6. Eyes Neuro-ocular lesions, for example, retinal thrombosis, and optic neuritis. 7. Central nervous system Mental depression, insomnia, somnolence, dizziness, headache, nervousness. 8. Miscellaneous Hypersensitivity reactions (for example, anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema), rash (allergic) with and without pruritus, change in weight (increase or decrease), pyrexia, edema/fluid retention, fatigue, decreased glucose tolerance. The following adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. 1. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding/spotting, or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrheal/pelvic pain; increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer. 2. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. 3. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting; abdominal cramps, bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis; enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. 5. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. 6. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance to contact lenses. 7. Central nervous system Headache; migraine; dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. 8. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthalgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS, WARNINGS, and PRECAUTIONS. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The following adverse reactions have been reported in women taking progestins, including medroxyprogesterone acetate tablets, without concomitant estrogens treatment: 1. Genitourinary System Abnormal uterine bleeding (irregular, increase, decrease), change in menstrual flow, breakthrough bleeding, spotting, amenorrhea, changes in cervical erosion and cervical secretions. 2. Breasts Breast tenderness, mastodynia or galactorrhea has been reported. 3. Cardiovascular Thromboembolic disorders including thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism have been reported. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, cholestatic jaundice. 5. Skin Sensitivity reactions consisting of urticaria, pruritus, edema and generalized rash have occurred. Acne, alopecia and hirsutism have been reported. 6. Eyes Neuro-ocular lesions, for example, retinal thrombosis, and optic neuritis. 7. Central Nervous System Mental depression, insomnia, somnolence, dizziness, headache, nervousness. 8. Miscellaneous Hypersensitivity reactions (for example, anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema), rash (allergic) with and without pruritus, change in weight (increase or decrease), pyrexia, edema/fluid retention, fatigue, decreased glucose tolerance. The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen and/or progestin therapy. 1. Genitourinary System Abnormal uterine bleeding/spotting, or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrheal/pelvic pain; increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer. 2. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. 3. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting; abdominal cramps, bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis; enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. 5. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. 6. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance to contact lenses. 7. Central Nervous System Headache; migraine; dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. 8. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthalgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaplylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS, WARNINGS, and PRECAUTIONS. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The following adverse reactions have been reported in women taking progestins, including medroxyprogesterone acetate tablets, without concomitant estrogens treatment: Abnormal uterine bleeding (irregular, increase, decrease), change in menstrual flow, breakthrough bleeding, spotting, amenorrhea, changes in cervical erosion and cervical secretions. Breast tenderness, mastodynia or galactorrhea has been reported. Thromboembolic disorders including thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism have been reported. Nausea, cholestatic jaundice. Sensitivity reactions consisting of urticaria, pruritus, edema and generalized rash have occurred. Acne, alopecia and hirsutism have been reported. Neuro-ocular lesions, for example, retinal thrombosis, and optic neuritis. Mental depression, insomnia, somnolence, dizziness, headache, nervousness. Hypersensitivity reactions (for example, anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema), rash (allergic) with and without pruritus, change in weight (increase or decrease), pyrexia, edema/fluid retention, fatigue, decreased glucose tolerance. The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen and/or progestin therapy. Abnormal uterine bleeding/spotting, or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrheal/pelvic pain; increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer. Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. Nausea, vomiting; abdominal cramps, bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis; enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance to contact lenses. Headache; migraine; dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthalgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaplylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS . Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice The following adverse reactions have been reported in women taking progestins, including MPA tablets, without concomitant estrogens treatment: 1. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding (irregular, increase, decrease), change in menstrual flow, breakthrough bleeding, spotting, amenorrhea, changes in cervical erosion and cervical secretions. 2. Breasts Breast tenderness, mastodynia or galactorrhea has been reported. 3. Cardiovascular Thromboembolic disorders including thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism have been reported. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, cholestatic jaundice. 5. Skin Sensitivity reactions consisting of urticaria, pruritus, edema and generalized rash have occurred. Acne, alopecia and hirsutism have been reported. 6. Eyes Neuro-ocular lesions, for example, retinal thrombosis, and optic neuritis. 7. Central nervous system Mental depression, insomnia, somnolence, dizziness, headache, nervousness. 8. Miscellaneous Hypersensitivity reactions (for example, anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema), rash (allergic) with and without pruritus, change in weight (increase or decrease), pyrexia, edema/fluid retention, fatigue, decreased glucose tolerance. The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen and/or progestin therapy. 1. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding/spotting, or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrheal/pelvic pain; increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer. 2. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. 3. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting; abdominal cramps, bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis; enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. 5. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. 6. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance to contact lenses. 7. Central nervous system Headache; migraine; dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. 8. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthalgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaplylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS SeeBOXED WARNINGS,WARNINGS, andPRECAUTIONS. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice The following adverse reactions have been reported in women taking progestins, including MPA tablets, without concomitant estrogens treatment: 1. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding (irregular, increase, decrease), change in menstrual flow, breakthrough bleeding, spotting, amenorrhea, changes in cervical erosion and cervical secretions. 2. Breasts Breast tenderness, mastodynia or galactorrhea has been reported. 3. Cardiovascular Thromboembolic disorders including thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism have been reported. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, cholestatic jaundice. 5. Skin Sensitivity reactions consisting of urticaria, pruritus, edema and generalized rash have occurred. Acne, alopecia and hirsutism have been reported. 6. Eyes Neuro-ocular lesions, for example, retinal thrombosis, and optic neuritis. 7. Central nervous system Mental depression, insomnia, somnolence, dizziness, headache, nervousness. 8. Miscellaneous Hypersensitivity reactions (for example, anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema), rash (allergic) with and without pruritus, change in weight (increase or decrease), pyrexia, edema/fluid retention, fatigue, decreased glucose tolerance. The following additional adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen and/or progestin therapy. 1. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding/spotting, or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrheal/pelvic pain; increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer. 2. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. 3. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting; abdominal cramps, bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis; enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. 5. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. 6. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance to contact lenses. 7. Central nervous system Headache; migraine; dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. 8. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthalgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaplylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See BOXED WARNINGS , WARNINGS , and PRECAUTIONS . Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The following adverse reactions have been reported in women taking PROVERA tablets, without concomitant estrogens treatment: 1. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding (irregular, increase, decrease), change in menstrual flow, breakthrough bleeding, spotting, amenorrhea, changes in cervical erosion and cervical secretions. 2. Breasts Breast tenderness, mastodynia or galactorrhea has been reported. 3. Cardiovascular Thromboembolic disorders including thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism have been reported. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, cholestatic jaundice. 5. Skin Sensitivity reactions consisting of urticaria, pruritus, edema and generalized rash have occurred. Acne, alopecia and hirsutism have been reported. 6. Eyes Neuro-ocular lesions, for example, retinal thrombosis, and optic neuritis. 7. Central nervous system Mental depression, insomnia, somnolence, dizziness, headache, nervousness. 8. Miscellaneous Hypersensitivity reactions (for example, anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions, angioedema), rash (allergic) with and without pruritus, change in weight (increase or decrease), pyrexia, edema/fluid retention, fatigue, decreased glucose tolerance. The following adverse reactions have been reported with estrogen plus progestin therapy. 1. Genitourinary system Abnormal uterine bleeding/spotting, or flow; breakthrough bleeding; spotting; dysmenorrheal/pelvic pain; increase in size of uterine leiomyomata; vaginitis, including vaginal candidiasis; change in amount of cervical secretion; changes in cervical ectropion; ovarian cancer; endometrial hyperplasia; endometrial cancer. 2. Breasts Tenderness, enlargement, pain, nipple discharge, galactorrhea; fibrocystic breast changes; breast cancer. 3. Cardiovascular Deep and superficial venous thrombosis; pulmonary embolism; thrombophlebitis; myocardial infarction; stroke; increase in blood pressure. 4. Gastrointestinal Nausea, vomiting; abdominal cramps, bloating; cholestatic jaundice; increased incidence of gallbladder disease; pancreatitis; enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas. 5. Skin Chloasma or melasma that may persist when drug is discontinued; erythema multiforme; erythema nodosum; hemorrhagic eruption; loss of scalp hair; hirsutism; pruritus, rash. 6. Eyes Retinal vascular thrombosis, intolerance to contact lenses. 7. Central nervous system Headache; migraine; dizziness; mental depression; chorea; nervousness; mood disturbances; irritability; exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia. 8. Miscellaneous Increase or decrease in weight; reduced carbohydrate tolerance; aggravation of porphyria; edema; arthalgias; leg cramps; changes in libido; urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions; hypocalcemia; exacerbation of asthma; increased triglycerides."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS See PRECAUTIONS for possible adverse effects on the fetus Reproductive System and Breast Disorders -breakthrough bleeding -spotting -change in menstrual flow -amenorrhea -changes in cervical erosion and cervical secretions -breast tenderness and galactorrhea -erectile dysfunction Nervous System Disorders -headache -dizziness -somnolence -convulsions Psychiatric Disorders -nervousness -euphoria -mental depression -insomnia General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions -edema -pyrexia -fatigue -malaise Investigations -change in weight (increase or decrease) Hepatobiliary Disorders -cholestatic jaundice, including neonatal jaundice Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders -skin sensitivity reactions consisting of urticaria, pruritus, edema and generalized rash -acne, alopecia and hirsutism -rash (allergic) with and without pruritis Immune System Disorders -anaphylactoid reactions and anaphylaxis -angioedema Gastrointestinal Disorders -nausea Endocrine Disorders -corticoid-like effects (e.g., Cushingoid syndrome) Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders -hypercalcemia In a few instances there have been undesirable sequelae at the site of injection, such as residual lump, change in color of skin, or sterile abscess. A statistically significant association has been demonstrated between use of estrogen-pro-gestin combination drugs and pulmonary embolism and cerebral thrombosis and embolism. For this reason patients on progestin therapy should be carefully observed. There is also evidence suggestive of an association with neuro-ocular lesions, e.g. retinal thrombosis and optic neuritis. The following adverse reactions have been observed in patients receiving estrogen-progestin combination drugs: -rise in blood pressure in susceptible individuals -premenstrual syndrome -changes in libido -changes in appetite -cystitis-like syndrome -headache -nervousness -fatigue -backache -hirsutism -loss of scalp hair -erythema multiforma -erythema nodosum -hemorrhagic eruption -itching -dizziness The following laboratory results may be altered by the use of estrogen-progestin combination drugs: -increased sulfobromophthalein retention and other hepatic function tests -coagulation tests: increase in prothrombin factors VII, VIII, IX, and X -metyrapone test -pregnanediol determinations -thyroid function: increase in PBI, and butanol extractable protein bound iodine and decrease in T3 uptake values"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS -(See WARNINGS for possible adverse effects on the fetus) -breakthrough bleeding -spotting -change in menstrual flow -amenorrhea -headache -nervousness -dizziness -edema -change in weight (increase or decrease) -changes in cervical erosion and cervical secretions -cholestatic jaundice, including neonatal jaundice -breast tenderness and galactorrhea -skin sensitivity reactions consisting of urticaria, pruritus, edema and generalized rash -acne, alopecia and hirsutism -rash (allergic) with and without pruritis -anaphylactoid reactions and anaphylaxis -mental depression -pyrexia -fatigue -insomnia -nausea -somnolence In a few instances there have been undesirable sequelae at the site of injection, such as residual lump, change in color of skin, or sterile abscess. A statistically significant association has been demonstrated between use of estrogen-progestin combination drugs and pulmonary embolism and cerebral thrombosis and embolism. For this reason patients on progestin therapy should be carefully observed. There is also evidence suggestive of an association with neuro-ocular lesions, e.g. retinal thrombosis and optic neuritis. The following adverse reactions have been observed in patients receiving estrogen-progestin combination drugs: -rise in blood pressure in susceptible individuals -premenstrual syndrome -changes in libido -changes in appetite -cystitis-like syndrome -headache -nervousness -fatigue -backache -hirsutism -loss of scalp hair -erythema multiforma -erythema nodosum -hemorrhagic eruption -itching -dizziness The following laboratory results may be altered by the use of estrogen-progestin combination drugs: -increased sulfobromophthalein retention and other hepatic function tests -coagulation tests: increase in prothrombin factors VII, VIII, IX, and X -metyrapone test -pregnanediol determinations -thyroid function: increase in PBI, and butanol extractable protein bound iodine and decrease in T3 uptake values"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The following important adverse reactions observed with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP are discussed in greater detail in the Warnings and Precautions section (5): Loss of Bone Mineral Density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Thromboembolic disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Breast Cancer [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Bleeding Irregularities[see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Weight Gain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical studies of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the two clinical trials with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, over 3,900 women, who were treated for up to 7 years, reported the following adverse reactions, which may or may not be related to the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. The population studied ranges in age from 15 to 51 years, of which 46% were White, 50% Non-White, and 4.9% Unknown race. The patients received 150 mg Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP every 3-months (90 days). The median study duration was 13 months with a range of 1-84 months. Fifty eight percent of patients remained in the study after 13 months and 34% after 24 months. Table 1 Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by More than 5% of Subjects Body System* Adverse Reactions (Incidence (%)) Body as a Whole Headache (16.5%) Abdominal pain/discomfort (11.2%) Metabolic/Nutritional Increased weight> 10lbs at 24 months (37.7%) Nervous Nervousness (10.8%) Dizziness (5.6%) Libido decreased (5.5%) Urogenital Menstrual irregularities: (bleeding (57.3% at 12 months, 32.1% at 24 months) amenorrhea (55% at 12 months, 68% at 24 months) Body System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Table 2 Adverse Reactions that Were Reported by between 1 and 5% of Subjects Body System* Adverse Reactions (Incidence (%)) Body as a Whole Asthenia/fatigue (4.2%) Backache (2.2%) Dysmenorrhea (1.7%) Hot flashes (1.0%) Digestive Nausea (3.3%) Bloating (2.3%) Metabolic/Nutritional Edema (2.2%) Musculoskeletal Leg cramps (3.7%) Arthralgia (1.0%) Nervous Depression (1.5%) Insomnia (1.0%) Skin and Appendages Acne (1.2%) No hair growth/alopecia (1.1%) Rash (1.1%) Urogenital Leukorrhea (2.9%) Breast pain (2.8%) Vaginitis (1.2%) Body System represented from COSTART medical dictionary. Adverse reactions leading to study discontinuation in >= 2% of subjects: bleeding (8.2%), amenorrhea (2.1%), weight gain (2.0%) The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. There have been cases of osteoporosis including osteoporotic fractures reported post-marketing in patients taking Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. Table 3 Adverse Reactions Reported during Post-Marketing Experience Body System* Adverse Reactions Body as a Whole Chest pain, Allergic reactions, Fever, Pain at injection site, Chills, Axillary swelling Cardiovascular Syncope, Tachycardia, Thrombophlebitis, Deep vein thrombosis, Pulmonary embolus, Varicose veins Digestive Changes in appetite, Gastrointestinal disturbances, Jaundice, Excessive thirst, Rectal bleeding Hematologic and Lymphatic Anemia, Blood dyscrasia Musculoskeletal Osteoporosis Nervous Paralysis, Facial palsy, Paresthesia, Drowsiness Respiratory Dyspnea and asthma, Hoarseness Skin and Appendages Hirsutism, Excessive sweating and body odor, Dry skin, Scleroderma Urogenital Cervical cancer, Breast cancer, Lack of return to fertility, Unexpected pregnancy, Prevention of lactation, Changes in breast size, Breast lumps or nipple bleeding, Galactorrhea, Melasma, Chloasma, Increased libido, Uterine hyperplasia, Genitourinary infections, Vaginal cysts, Dyspareunia Body System represented from COSTART medical dictionary."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with DEPO-PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension may significantly depress the serum concentrations of medroxyprogesterone acetate. DEPO-PROVERA users should be warned of the possibility of decreased efficacy with the use of this or any related drugs."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with DEPO-PROVERA Sterile Aqueous Suspension may significantly depress the serum concentrations of medroxyprogesterone acetate. DEPO-PROVERA users should be warned of the possibility of decreased efficacy with the use of this or any related drugs. In vitro Medroxyprogesterone acetate is metabolized primarily by hydroxylation via the CYP3A4. Though no formal drug interaction trials have been conducted, concomitant administration of strong CYP3A inhibitors is expected to increase concentrations of medroxyprogesterone acetate, whereas the concomitant administration of strong CYP3A inducers is expected to decrease medroxyprogesterone acetate concentrations. Therefore, coadministration with strong CYP3A inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin, atazanavir, indinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, voriconazole) or strong CYP3A inducers (e.g., phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampin, rifabutin, rifapentin, phenobarbital, St. John's Wort) should be avoided."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Aminoglutethimide administered concomitantly with the Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP may significantly depress the serum concentrations of medroxyprogesterone acetate.12 Users of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP should be warned of the possibility of decreased efficacy with the use of this or any related drugs."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS Drugs or herbal products that induce certain enzymes, including CYP3A4, may decrease the effectiveness of contraceptive drug products. Counsel patients to use a back-up method or alternative method of contraception when enzyme inducers are used with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. (7.1) If a woman on hormonal contraceptives takes a drug or herbal product that induces enzymes, including CYP3A4, that metabolize contraceptive hormones, counsel her to use additional contraception or a different method of contraception. Drugs or herbal products that induce such enzymes may decrease the plasma concentrations of contraceptive hormones, and may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives. Some drugs or herbal products that may decrease the effectiveness of hormonal contraceptives include: barbiturates bosentan carbamazepine felbamate griseofulvin oxcarbazepine phenytoin rifampin St. John's wort topiramate HIV protease inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors: Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration of HIV protease inhibitors. Significant changes (increase or decrease) in the plasma levels of the progestin have been noted in some cases of co-administration with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Antibiotics: There have been reports of pregnancy while taking hormonal contraceptives and antibiotics, but clinical pharmacokinetic studies have not shown consistent effects of antibiotics on plasma concentrations of synthetic steroids. Consult the labeling of all concurrently-used drugs to obtain further information about interactions with hormonal contraceptives or the potential for enzyme alterations. The pathologist should be advised of progestin therapy when relevant specimens are submitted. The following laboratory tests may be affected by progestins including Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP: (a)Plasma and urinary steroid levels are decreased (e.g., progesterone, estradiol, pregnanediol, testosterone, cortisol).(b)Gonadotropin levels are decreased.(c)Sex-hormone-binding-globulin concentrations are decreased.(d)Protein-bound iodine and butanol extractable protein-bound iodine may increase. T 3 -uptake values may decrease.(e)Coagulation test values for prothrombin (Factor II), and Factors VII, VIII, IX, and X may increase.(f)Sulfobromophthalein and other liver function test values may be increased.(g)The effects of medroxyprogesterone acetate on lipid metabolism are inconsistent. Both increases and decreases in total cholesterol, triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol have been observed in studies."$$
"WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Thromboembolic Disorders: Discontinue Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in patients who develop thrombosis (5.2) Cancer Risks: Monitor women with breast nodules or a strong family history of breast cancer carefully. (5.3) Ectopic Pregnancy: Consider ectopic pregnancy if a woman using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP becomes pregnant or complains of severe abdominal pain. (5.4) Anaphylaxis and Anaphylactoid Reactions: Provide emergency medical treatment. (5.5) Liver Function: Discontinue Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP if jaundice or disturbances of liver function develop (5.6) Carbohydrate Metabolism: Monitor diabetic patients carefully. (5.11) Use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP reduces serum estrogen levels and is associated with significant loss of bone mineral density (BMD). This loss of BMD is of particular concern during adolescence and early adulthood, a critical period of bone accretion. It is unknown if use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP by younger women will reduce peak bone mass and increase the risk for osteoporotic fracture in later life. After discontinuing Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in adolescents, mean BMD loss at total hip and femoral neck did not fully recover by 60 months (240 weeks) post-treatment [ see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Similarly, in adults, there was only partial recovery of mean BMD at total hip, femoral neck and lumbar spine towards baseline by 24 months post-treatment. [ See Clinical Studies (14.2).] Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP should not be used as a long-term birth control method (i.e., longer than 2 years) unless other birth control methods are considered inadequate. BMD should be evaluated when a woman needs to continue to use Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP long-term. In adolescents, interpretation of BMD results should take into account patient age and skeletal maturity. Other birth control methods should be considered in the risk/benefit analysis for the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in women with osteoporosis risk factors. Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP can pose an additional risk in patients with risk factors for osteoporosis (e.g., metabolic bone disease, chronic alcohol and/or tobacco use, anorexia nervosa, strong family history of osteoporosis or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass such as anticonvulsants or corticosteroids). Although there are no studies addressing whether calcium and Vitamin D may lessen BMD loss in women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, all patients should have adequate calcium and Vitamin D intake. There have been reports of serious thrombotic events in women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. However, Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP has not been causally associated with the induction of thrombotic or thromboembolic disorders. Any patient who develops thrombosis while undergoing therapy with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP should discontinue treatment unless she has no other acceptable options for birth control. Do not re-administer Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP pending examination if there is a sudden partial or complete loss of vision or if there is a sudden onset of proptosis, diplopia, or migraine. Do not re-administer if examination reveals papilledema or retinal vascular lesions. Breast Cancer Women who currently have or have had breast cancer should not use hormone contraceptives, including Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, because breast cancer may be hormonally sensitive. Women with a strong family history of breast cancer or who have breast nodules should be monitored with particular care. A pooled analysis from two case-control studies, the World Health Organization Study and the New Zealand Study, reported the relative risk (RR) of breast cancer for women who had ever used Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP as 1.1 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.97 to 1.4). Overall, there was no increase in risk with increasing duration of use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. The RR of breast cancer for women of all ages who had initiated use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP within the previous 5 years was estimated to be 2.0 (95% CI 1.5 to 2.8). The World Health Organization Study, a component of the pooled analysis described above, showed an increased RR of 2.19 (95% CI 1.23 to 3.89) of breast cancer associated with use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in women whose first exposure to drug was within the previous 4 years and who were under 35 years of age. However, the overall RR for ever-users of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP was 1.2 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.52). The National Cancer Institute reports an average annual incidence rate for breast cancer for US women, all races, age 15 to 34 years of 8.7 per 100,000. A RR of 2.19, thus, increases the possible risk from 8.7 to 19.0 cases per 100,000 women. The attributable risk, thus, is 31.8 per 100,000 women per year. Cervical Cancer A statistically nonsignificant increase in RR estimates of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer has been associated with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP in women who were first exposed before the age of 35 years (RR 1.22 to 1.28 and 95% CI 0.93 to 1.70). The overall, nonsignificant relative rate of invasive squamous-cell cervical cancer in women who ever used Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP was estimated to be 1.11 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.29). No trends in risk with duration of use or times since initial or most recent exposure were observed. Other Cancers Long-term case-controlled surveillance of users of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP found no overall increased risk of ovarian or liver cancer. Be alert to the possibility of an ectopic pregnancy among women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP who become pregnant or complain of severe abdominal pain. Anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reaction have been reported with the use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. Institute emergency medical treatment if an anaphylactic reaction occurs. Discontinue Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP use if jaundice or acute or chronic disturbances of liver function develop. Do not resume use until markers of liver function return to normal and Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP causation has been excluded. There have been a few reported cases of convulsions in patients who were treated with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. Association with drug use or pre-existing conditions is not clear. Monitor patients who have a history of depression and do not readminister Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP if depression recurs. Most women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP experience disruption of menstrual bleeding patterns. Altered menstrual bleeding patterns include amenorrhea, irregular or unpredictable bleeding or spotting, prolonged spotting or bleeding, and heavy bleeding. Rule out the possibility of organic pathology if abnormal bleeding persists or is severe, and institute appropriate treatment. As women continue using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, fewer experience irregular bleeding and more experience amenorrhea. In clinical studies of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, by month 12 amenorrhea was reported by 55% of women, and by month 24, amenorrhea was reported by 68% of women using Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. Women tend to gain weight while on therapy with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. From an initial average body weight of 136 lb, women who completed 1 year of therapy with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP gained an average of 5.4 lb. Women who completed 2 years of therapy gained an average of 8.1 lb. Women who completed 4 years gained an average of 13.8 lb. Women who completed 6 years gained an average of 16.5 lb. Two percent of women withdrew from a large-scale clinical trial because of excessive weight gain. A decrease in glucose tolerance has been observed in some patients on Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP treatment. Monitor diabetic patients carefully while receiving Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. Detectable amounts of drug have been identified in the milk of mothers receiving Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. In nursing mothers treated with Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP, milk composition, quality, and amount are not adversely affected. Neonates and infants exposed to medroxyprogesterone from breast milk have been studied for developmental and behavioral effects through puberty. No adverse effects have been noted. Because progestational drugs including Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP may cause some degree of fluid retention, monitor patients with conditions that might be influenced by this condition, such as epilepsy, migraine, asthma, and cardiac or renal dysfunction. Return to ovulation and fertility is likely to be delayed after stopping Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP. In a large US study of women who discontinued use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP to become pregnant, data are available for 61% of them. Of the 188 women who discontinued the study to become pregnant, 114 became pregnant. Based on Life-Table analysis of these data, it is expected that 68% of women who do become pregnant may conceive within 12 months, 83% may conceive within 15 months, and 93% may conceive within 18 months from the last injection. The median time to conception for those who do conceive is 10 months following the last injection with a range of 4 to 31 months, and is unrelated to the duration of use. No data are available for 39% of the patients who discontinued Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP to become pregnant and who were lost to follow-up or changed their mind. Patients should be counseled that Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP does not protect against HIV infection (AIDS) and other sexually transmitted diseases. Although Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP should not be used during pregnancy, there appears to be little or no increased risk of birth defects in women who have inadvertently been exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate injections in early pregnancy. Neonates exposed to medroxyprogesterone acetate in-utero and followed to adolescence showed no evidence of any adverse effects on their health including their physical, intellectual, sexual or social development. A woman who is taking hormonal contraceptive should have a yearly visit with her healthcare provider for a blood pressure check and for other indicated healthcare. The use of Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Injectable Suspension, USP may change the results of some laboratory tests, such as coagulation factors, lipids, glucose tolerance, and binding proteins. [See Drug Interactions (7.2)]."$$
