$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Assess renal function at beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment ( ) Renal Impairment (for example, minimal change nephropathy, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, renal failure): 5.1 Has been reported. Observe patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment ( ) Mesalamine-induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome: 5.2 Use caution when treating patients who are hypersensitive to sulfasalazine. Mesalamine-induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions (myocarditis and pericarditis) have been reported ( ) Hypersensitivity Reactions: 5.3 Has been reported in patients with pre-existing liver disease. Use caution when treating patients with liver disease ( ) Hepatic Failure: 5.4 May lead to a delay in onset of action ( ) Prolonged Gastric Retention in Patients with Upper Gastrointestinal Obstruction: 5.5 5.1 Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including minimal change nephropathy, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, and renal failure, has been reported in patients taking products such as DELZICOL that contain mesalamine or are converted to mesalamine. It is recommended that patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of DELZICOL and periodically while on therapy. Prescribers should carefully evaluate the risks and benefits when using DELZICOL in patients with known renal impairment or history of renal disease and . [see Drug Interactions ( ) 7.1 Nonclinical Toxicology ( )] 13.2 5.2 Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from an exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. Although the exact frequency of occurrence has not been determined, it has occurred in 3% of controlled clinical trials of mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Symptoms include cramping, abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, and sometimes fever, headache, and rash. Observe patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment. If acute intolerance syndrome is suspected, promptly discontinue treatment with DELZICOL. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Some patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to sulfasalazine may have a similar reaction to DELZICOL or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine. Mesalamine-induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions (myocarditis and pericarditis) have been reported with DELZICOL and other mesalamine medications. Caution should be taken in prescribing this medicine to patients with conditions predisposing them to the development of myocarditis or pericarditis. 5.4 Hepatic Failure There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre-existing liver disease who have been administered mesalamine. Caution should be exercised when administering DELZICOL to patients with liver disease. 5.5 Prolonged Gastric Retention in Patients with Upper Gastrointestinal Obstruction Organic or functional obstruction in the upper gastrointestinal tract may cause prolonged gastric retention of DELZICOL which would delay release of mesalamine in the colon."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Development of Renal Impairment ( for example, minimal change nephropathy, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis renal failure): Assess renal function at beginning of treatment and periodically during therapy (5.1) Mesalamine-induced Acute I n tolerance Syndrome: Has been reported. Observe patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment (5.2) Hypersensitivity Reactions: Use caution when treating patients who are hypersensitive to sulfasalazine. Mesalamine-induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions (myocarditis and pericarditis) have been reported (5.3) Hepatic Failure: Has been reported in patients with pre-existing liver disease. Use caution when treating patients with liver disease (5.4) Prolonged Gastric Retention in P a ti e nts with Upper Gastrointestinal Obstruction: May lead to a delay in onset of action (5.5) 5.1 Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including minimal change nephropathy, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, and, rarely, renal failure, has been reported in patients taking products such as Asacol HD that contain or are converted to mesalamine. It is recommended that all patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of Asacol HD and periodically while on therapy. Prescribers should carefully evaluate the risks and benefits when using Asacol HD in patients with known renal impairment or history of renal disease [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13.2 ) ]. 5. 2 Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from an exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. Exacerbation of the symptoms of colitis has been reported in 2.3 percent of Asacol HD-treated patients in controlled clinical trials. This acute reaction, characterized by cramping, abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, and occasionally by fever, headache, malaise, pruritus, rash, and conjunctivitis, has been reported after the initiation of Asacol HD tablets as well as other mesalamine products. Symptoms usually abate when Asacol HD tablets are discontinued. 5. 3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Some patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to sulfasalazine may have a similar reaction to Asacol HD tablets or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine. Mesalamine-induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions (myocarditis and pericarditis) have been reported with Asacol HD and other mesalamine medications. Caution should be taken in prescribing this medicine to patients with conditions predisposing them to the development of myocarditis or pericarditis. 5. 4 Hepatic Failure There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre-existing liver disease who have been administered mesalamine. Caution should be exercised when administering Asacol HD to patients with liver disease. 5. 5 Prolonged Gastric Retention in Patients w ith Upper Gastrointestinal Obstruction Organic or functional obstruction in the upper gastrointestinal tract may cause prolonged gastric retention of Asacol HD which would delay release of mesalamine in the colon."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Renal Impairment: Evaluate the risks and benefits in patients with known renal impairment or taking nephrotoxic drugs; monitor renal function (5.1, 7.1, 8.6, 13.2) Mesalamine-induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome: Symptoms may be difficult to distinguish from a UC exacerbation; monitor for worsening symptoms; discontinue if acute intolerance syndrome suspected (5.2) Hypersensitivity Reactions , including Myocarditis and Pericarditis : Evaluate patients immediately and discontinue if a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected (5.3) Hepatic Failure: Evaluate the risks and benefits in patients with known liver impairment (5.4) 5.1 Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including minimal change nephropathy, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, and renal failure, has been reported in patients taking products such as Asacol that contain mesalamine or are converted to mesalamine. [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2 )]. Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of Asacol and periodically while on therapy. Evaluate the risks and benefits of using Asacol in patients with known renal impairment or history of renal disease or taking concomitant nephrotoxic drugs [ see Drug Interactions ( 7.1 ), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.6 ) and Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13.2 )]. 5.2 Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from an exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. Although the exact frequency of occurrence has not been determined, it has occurred in 3% of controlled clinical trials of mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Symptoms include cramping, abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, and sometimes fever, headache, and rash. Monitor patients for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment. If acute intolerance syndrome is suspected, promptly discontinue treatment with Asacol. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients taking sulfasalazine. Some patients may have a similar reaction to Asacol or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine. As with sulfasalazine, mesalamine-induced hypersensitivity reactions may present as internal organ involvement, including myocarditis, pericarditis, nephritis, hepatitis, pneumonitis, and hematologic abnormalities. Evaluate patients immediately if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction are present. Discontinue Asacol if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established. 5.4 Hepatic Failure There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre-existing liver disease who have been administered mesalamine. Evaluate the risks and benefits of using Asacol in patients with known liver impairment."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Renal Impairment: Evaluate the risks and benefits of using DELZICOL in patients with known renal impairment or taking nephrotoxic drugs; monitor renal function (5.1, 7.1, 8.6, 13.2) Mesalamine-induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome: Symptoms may be difficult to distinguish from an ulcerative colitis exacerbation; monitor for worsening symptoms while on treatment; discontinue treatment, if acute intolerance syndrome suspected (5.2) Hypersensitivity Reactions , including myocarditis and pericarditis : Evaluate patients immediately and discontinue DELZICOL, if a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected (5.3) Hepatic Failure: Evaluate the risks and benefits of using DELZICOL in patients with known liver impairment (5.4) 5.1 Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including minimal change nephropathy, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, and renal failure, has been reported in patients taking products such as DELZICOL that contain mesalamine or are converted to mesalamine [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Evaluate renal function prior to initiation of DELZICOL and periodically while on therapy. Evaluate the risks and benefits of using DELZICOL in patients with known renal impairment or history of renal disease or taking concomitant nephrotoxic drugs [see Drug Interactions (7.1) , Use in Specific Populations (8.6) , Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ]. 5.2 Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from an exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. Although the exact frequency of occurrence has not been determined, it has occurred in 3% of controlled clinical trials of mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Symptoms include cramping, abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, and sometimes fever, headache, and rash. Monitor patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment. If acute intolerance syndrome is suspected, promptly discontinue treatment with DELZICOL. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients taking sulfasalazine. Some patients may have a similar reaction to DELZICOL or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine. As with sulfasalazine, mesalamine-induced hypersensitivity reactions may present as internal organ involvement, including myocarditis, pericarditis, nephritis, hepatitis, pneumonitis, and hematologic abnormalities. Evaluate patients immediately if signs or symptoms of a hypersensitivity reaction are present. Discontinue DELZICOL if an alternative etiology for the signs or symptoms cannot be established. 5.4 Hepatic Failure There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre-existing liver disease who have been administered mesalamine. Evaluate the risk and benefits of using DELZICOL in patients with known liver impairment."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Renal Impairment (for example, minimal change nephropathy, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, renal failure): Assess renal function at beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment (5.1) Mesalamine-induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome: Has been reported. Observe patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment (5.2) Hypersensitivity Reactions: Use caution when treating patients who are hypersensitive to sulfasalazine. Mesalamine-induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions (myocarditis and pericarditis) have been reported (5.3) Hepatic Failure: Has been reported in patients with pre-existing liver disease. Use caution when treating patients with liver disease (5.4) Prolonged Gastric Retention in Patients with Upper Gastrointestinal Obstruction: May lead to a delay in onset of action (5.5) 5.1 Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including minimal change nephropathy, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, and renal failure, has been reported in patients taking products such as DELZICOL that contain mesalamine or are converted to mesalamine. It is recommended that patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of DELZICOL and periodically while on therapy. Prescribers should carefully evaluate the risks and benefits when using DELZICOL in patients with known renal impairment or history of renal disease [see Drug Interactions (7.1) and Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2)]. 5.2 Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from an exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. Although the exact frequency of occurrence has not been determined, it has occurred in 3% of controlled clinical trials of mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Symptoms include cramping, abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, and sometimes fever, headache, and rash. Observe patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment. If acute intolerance syndrome is suspected, promptly discontinue treatment with DELZICOL. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Some patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to sulfasalazine may have a similar reaction to DELZICOL or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine. Mesalamine-induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions (myocarditis and pericarditis) have been reported with DELZICOL and other mesalamine medications. Caution should be taken in prescribing this medicine to patients with conditions predisposing them to the development of myocarditis or pericarditis. 5.4 Hepatic Failure There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre-existing liver disease who have been administered mesalamine. Caution should be exercised when administering DELZICOL to patients with liver disease. 5.5 Prolonged Gastric Retention in Patients with Upper Gastrointestinal Obstruction Organic or functional obstruction in the upper gastrointestinal tract may cause prolonged gastric retention of DELZICOL which would delay release of mesalamine in the colon."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Renal impairment may occur. Assess renal function at the beginning of treatment and periodically during therapy (5.1) Acute exacerbation of colitis symptoms can occur (5.2) Use caution with pre-existing liver disease (5.4) 5.1 Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including minimal change nephropathy, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, and, rarely, renal failure, has been reported in patients given products such as APRISO that contain mesalamine or are converted to mesalamine. It is recommended that patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of APRISO therapy and periodically while on therapy. Exercise caution when using APRISO in patients with known renal dysfunction or a history of renal disease. In animal studies, the kidney was the principal organ for toxicity [See Nonclinical Toxicology ( 13.2 )] 5.2 Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from a flare of inflammatory bowel disease. Although the exact frequency of occurrence has not been determined, it has occurred in 3% of patients in controlled clinical trials of mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Symptoms include cramping, acute abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea, sometimes fever, headache, and rash. If acute intolerance syndrome is suspected, promptly discontinue treatment with APRISO. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Some patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to sulfasalazine may have a similar reaction to APRISO capsules or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine. 5.4 Hepatic Impairment There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre-existing liver disease who have been administered mesalamine. Caution should be exercised when administering APRISO to patients with liver disease."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Renal impairment may occur. Assess renal function at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. (5.1) Mesalamine-induced acute intolerance syndrome has been reported. Observe patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment. (5.2) Use caution when treating patients who are hypersensitive to sulfasalazine. (5.3) Mesalamine-induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions (myocarditis and pericarditis) have been reported. (5.3) Hepatic failure has been reported in patients with pre-existing liver disease. Use caution when treating patients with liver disease. (5.4) 5.1 Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including minimal change nephropathy, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, and, rarely, renal failure, has been reported in patients given products such as CANASA that contain mesalamine or are converted to mesalamine. It is recommended that patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of CANASA therapy and periodically while on therapy. Exercise caution when using CANASA in patients with known renal dysfunction or a history of renal disease. In animal studies, the kidney was the principal organ for toxicity [See Drug Interactions (7.1) and Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2)]. 5.2 Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from an exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. Although the exact frequency of occurrence has not been determined, it has occurred in 3% of patients in controlled clinical trials of mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Symptoms include cramping, acute abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea, and sometimes fever, headache, and rash. Observe patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment. If acute intolerance syndrome is suspected, promptly discontinue treatment with CANASA. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Some patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to sulfasalazine may have a similar reaction to CANASA tablets or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine. Mesalamine-induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions (myocarditis and pericarditis) have been reported with CANASA and other mesalamine medications. Caution should be taken in prescribing CANASA to patients with hypersensitivity to 5-ASA products. 5.4 Hepatic Impairment There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre-existing liver disease who have been administered other products containing mesalamine. Caution should be exercised when administering CANASA to patients with liver disease. 5.5 Drug-Laboratories Test Interactions There have been several reports of possible interference with measurements, by liquid chromatography, of urinary normetanephrine in patients exposed to sulfasalazine or its metabolite, mesalamine/mesalazine."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Renal impairment may occur. Assess renal function at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. ( 5.1) Mesalamine-induced acute intolerance syndrome has been reported. Observe patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment. ( 5.2) Use caution when treating patients who are hypersensitive to sulfasalazine. ( 5.3) Mesalamine-induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions (myocarditis and pericarditis) have been reported. ( 5.3) Hepatic failure has been reported in patients with pre-existing liver disease. Use caution when treating patients with liver disease. ( 5.4) Upper GI tract obstruction may delay onset of action. ( 5.5) Use of mesalamine may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. (5.6) 5.1 Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including minimal change nephropathy, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, and, rarely, renal failure, has been reported in patients given products such as LIALDA that contain mesalamine or are converted to mesalamine. It is recommended that patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of LIALDA therapy and periodically while on therapy. Exercise caution when using LIALDA in patients with known renal dysfunction or a history of renal disease. In animal studies, the kidney was the principal organ for toxicity. [See Drug Interactions (7.1) and Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ] 5.2 Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from an exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. Although the exact frequency of occurrence has not been determined, it has occurred in 3% of patients in controlled clinical trials of mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Symptoms include cramping, acute abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea, and sometimes fever, headache, and rash. Observe patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment. If acute intolerance syndrome is suspected, promptly discontinue treatment with LIALDA. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Some patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to sulfasalazine may have a similar reaction to LIALDA tablets or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine. Mesalamine-induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions (myocarditis and pericarditis) have been reported with LIALDA and other mesalamine medications. Caution should be taken in prescribing this medicine to patients with conditions predisposing them to the development of myocarditis or pericarditis. 5.4 Hepatic Impairment There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre-existing liver disease who have been administered mesalamine. Caution should be exercised when administering LIALDA to patients with liver disease. 5.5 Upper GI Tract Obstruction Pyloric stenosis or other organic or functional obstruction in the upper gastrointestinal tract may cause prolonged gastric retention of LIALDA which would delay mesalamine release in the colon. 5.6 Interference with Laboratory Tests Use of mesalamine may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection because of the similarity in the chromatograms of normetanephrine and mesalamine's main metabolite, N-acetylaminosalicylic acid (N-Ac-5-ASA). An alternative, selective assay for normetanephrine should be considered."$$
"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Renal impairment may occur. Assess renal function at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. (5.1) Mesalamine-induced acute intolerance syndrome has been reported. Observe patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment. (5.2) Use caution when treating patients who are hypersensitive to sulfasalazine. (5.3) Mesalamine-induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions (myocarditis and pericarditis) have been reported. (5.3) Hepatic failure has been reported in patients with pre-existing liver disease. Use caution when treating patients with liver disease. (5.4) Upper GI tract obstruction may delay onset of action. (5.5) Use of mesalamine may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. (5.6) 5.1 Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including minimal change nephropathy, acute and chronic interstitial nephritis, and, rarely, renal failure, has been reported in patients given products such as LIALDA that contain mesalamine or are converted to mesalamine. It is recommended that patients have an evaluation of renal function prior to initiation of LIALDA therapy and periodically while on therapy. Exercise caution when using LIALDA in patients with known renal dysfunction or a history of renal disease. In animal studies, the kidney was the principal organ for toxicity. [See Drug Interactions (7.1) and Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2)] 5.2 Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome Mesalamine has been associated with an acute intolerance syndrome that may be difficult to distinguish from an exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. Although the exact frequency of occurrence has not been determined, it has occurred in 3% of patients in controlled clinical trials of mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Symptoms include cramping, acute abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea, and sometimes fever, headache, and rash. Observe patients closely for worsening of these symptoms while on treatment. If acute intolerance syndrome is suspected, promptly discontinue treatment with LIALDA. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions Some patients who have experienced a hypersensitivity reaction to sulfasalazine may have a similar reaction to LIALDA tablets or to other compounds that contain or are converted to mesalamine. Mesalamine-induced cardiac hypersensitivity reactions (myocarditis and pericarditis) have been reported with LIALDA and other mesalamine medications. Caution should be taken in prescribing this medicine to patients with conditions predisposing them to the development of myocarditis or pericarditis. 5.4 Hepatic Impairment There have been reports of hepatic failure in patients with pre-existing liver disease who have been administered mesalamine. Caution should be exercised when administering LIALDA to patients with liver disease. 5.5 Upper GI Tract Obstruction Pyloric stenosis or other organic or functional obstruction in the upper gastrointestinal tract may cause prolonged gastric retention of LIALDA which would delay mesalamine release in the colon. 5.6 Interference with Laboratory Tests Use of mesalamine may lead to spuriously elevated test results when measuring urinary normetanephrine by liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection because of the similarity in the chromatograms of normetanephrine and mesalamine's main metabolite, N-acetylaminosalicylic acid (N-Ac-5-ASA). An alternative, selective assay for normetanephrine should be considered."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions (incidence >=3%) are headache, diarrhea, upper abdominal pain, nausea, nasopharyngitis, flu or flu-like illness, sinusitis (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-508-0024 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Studies Experience The data described below reflect exposure to APRISO in 557 patients, including 354 exposed for at least 6 months and 250 exposed for greater than one year. APRISO was studied in two placebo-controlled trials (n = 367 treated with APRISO) and in one open-label, long-term study (n = 190 additional patients). The population consisted of patients with ulcerative colitis; the mean age was 47 years, 54% were female, and 93% were white. Patients received doses of APRISO 1.5 g administered orally once per day for six months in the placebo-controlled trials and for up to 24 months in the open-label study. Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In the two placebo-controlled trials, 59% of APRISO-treated patients experienced an adverse reaction compared with 64% of placebo patients. Most adverse reactions with APRISO were mild or moderate in severity. Severe adverse reactions occurred in 6% of APRISO-treated patients and 5% of placebo-treated patients. Discontinuations due to adverse reactions occurred in 11% of APRISO-treated patients and 17% of placebo-treated patients; the most common adverse reaction resulting in study discontinuation was recurrence of ulcerative colitis (APRISO 6%, placebo 14%). The most common reactions reported with APRISO (>=3%) are shown in Table 1 below. Table 1: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions during Clinical Trials Occurring in at Least 3% of APRISO-Treated Patients and at a Greater Rate than with Placebo MedDRA Preferred Term APRISO 1.5g/day N=367 Placebo N=185 Headache 11% 8% Diarrhea 8% 7% Abdominal Pain Upper 5% 3% Nausea 4% 3% Nasopharyngitis 4% 3% Influenza & Influenza-like illness 4% 4% Sinusitis 3% 3% The following adverse reactions, presented by body system, were reported at a frequency less than 3% in patients treated with APRISO for up to 24 months in controlled and open-label trials. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: tinnitus, vertigo Dermatological Disorder: alopecia Gastrointestinal: abdominal pain lower, rectal hemorrhage Laboratory Abnormalities: increased triglycerides, decreased hematocrit and hemoglobin General Disorders and Administration Site Disorders: fatigue Hepatic: hepatitis cholestatic, transaminases increased Renal Disorders: creatinine clearance decreased, hematuria Musculoskeletal: pain, arthralgia Respiratory: dyspnea 6.2 Adverse Reaction Information from Other Sources The following adverse reactions have been identified during clinical trials of a product similar to APRISO and post approval use of other mesalamine-containing products such as APRISO. Because many of these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: lupus-like syndrome, drug fever Cardiovascular: pericarditis, pericardial effusion, myocarditis Gastrointestinal: pancreatitis, cholecystitis, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, perforated peptic ulcer Hepatic: jaundice, cholestatic jaundice, hepatitis, liver necrosis, liver failure, Kawasaki-like syndrome including changes in liver enzymes Hematologic: agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia Neurological/Psychiatric: peripheral neuropathy, Guillain-Barre syndrome, transverse myelitis Respiratory/Pulmonary: eosinophilic pneumonia, interstitial pneumonitis Skin: psoriasis, pyoderma gangrenosum, erythema nodosum Renal/Urogenital: reversible oligospermia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most serious adverse reactions seen in Asacol clinical trials or with other products that contain mesalamine or are metabolized to mesalamine are: Renal Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Hepatic Failure [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] The most common adverse reactions (>=5%) for the treatment of mild to moderate UC are (6.1): Adults: eructation, abdominal pain, constipation, dizziness, rhinitis, back pain, and rash Pediatric Patients 5 to 17 years of age: nasopharyngitis, headache, abdominal pain, dizziness, sinusitis, rash, cough and diarrhea To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Warner Chilcott at 1-800-521-8813 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug, and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In total, Asacol tablets have been evaluated in 2,690 patients with ulcerative colitis in controlled and open-label trials. Clinical studies supporting Asacol use for the treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis included two 6-week, placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind studies in adults with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis (Studies 1 and 2), and one 6-week, randomized, double-blind, study of 2 dosage levels in children with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis (Study 3). Clinical studies supporting the use of Asacol tablets in the maintenance of remission of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis included a 6-month, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center study (Study 4) and four active-controlled maintenance trials comparing Asacol tablets with sulfasalazine. Asacol has been evaluated in 427 adults and 82 children with ulcerative colitis in these controlled studies. Treatment of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis Adults In a 6-week placebo-controlled clinical study (Study 1) involving 105 patients, 53 of whom were randomized to Asacol 2.4 grams/day [see Clinical Studies ( 14.1 )], 4% of the Asacol-treated patients in 2.4 grams/day group discontinued therapy because of adverse reactions as compared to 0% of the placebo-treated patients. The average age of patients was 41 years and 49% of patients were male. Adverse reactions leading to withdrawal from Asacol included (each in one patient): diarrhea and colitis flare; dizziness, nausea, joint pain, and headache. The most common adverse reactions in patients treated with Asacol 2.4 grams/day in Study 1 are listed in Table 2 below. Table 2. Most Common Adverse Reactions Reported in Study 1 for the Treatment of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis in Adults* Adverse Reaction % of Patients with Adverse Reactions Asacol 2.4 grams/day Placebo (n = 53) (n = 52) Eructation 26 19 Abdominal pain 21 12 Constipation 11 0 Dizziness 9 8 Rhinitis 8 6 Back pain 6 4 Rash 6 4 Dyspepsia 4 0 Flu syndrome 4 2 * At Least 2% of Patients in the Asacol Group and at a Rate Greater than Placebo Pediatric Patients 5 to 17 Years Old A randomized, double-blind, 6-week study of 2 dosage levels of Asacol (Study 3) was conducted in 82 pediatric patients 5 to 17 years of age with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. All patients were divided by body weight category (17 to less than 33 kg, 33 to less than 54 kg, and 54 to 90 kg) and randomly assigned to receive a low dosage (1.2, 2, and 2.4 grams/day for the respective body weight category) or a high dosage (2, 3.6, and 4.8 grams/day). The high dosage regimen is not recommended because it was not found to be more effective than the recommended low dosage regimen [see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) and Clinical Studies ( 14.1 ) ]. Duration of exposure to Asacol among the 82 patients in the study ranged from 12 to 50 days (mean of 40 days in each dosage group). The majority (88%) of patients in each group were treated for more than 5 weeks. Table 3 provides a summary of the specific reported adverse reactions. Table 3. Adverse Reactions >= 5% Reported in Study 3 for the Treatment of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis in Pediatric Patients* Adverse Reaction % of Patients with Adverse Reactions Asacol Low Dosage Asacol High Dosage (n=41) (n=41) Nasopharyngitis 15 12 Headache 10 5 Abdominal pain 10 2 Dizziness 7 2 Sinusitis 7 0 Rash 5 5 Cough 5 0 Diarrhea 5 0 Fatigue 2 10 Pyrexia 0 7 Increased Lipase 0 5 Low Dosage = Asacol 1.2 to 2.4 grams/day; High Dosage = Asacol 2.0 to 4.8 grams/day. Dosage was dependent on body weight. Adverse Reactions reported at the 1-week telephone follow-up visit are included. * At Least 5% of Patients in the low dosage or high dosage group Twelve percent of the patients in the low dosage group (5 patients) and 2% of the patients in the high dosage group (1 patient) had serious adverse reactions. The serious adverse reactions consisted of sinusitis, adenovirus infection, and pancreatitis in one patient each in the low dosage group. Abdominal pain and decreased body mass index occurred in one patient and bloody diarrhea and sclerosing cholangitis also occurred in one patient in the low dosage group. Anemia and syncope occurred in one patient in the high dosage group. Five patients were withdrawn from the study due to adverse reactions: 3 (7%) in the low dosage group (1 patient each with adenovirus infection, sclerosing cholangitis, and pancreatitis) and 2 patients (5%) in the high dosage group (1 patient with increased amylase and increased lipase, and 1 patient with upper abdominal pain). In general, the nature and severity of reactions in the pediatric population was similar to those reported in adult populations of patients with ulcerative colitis. Maintenance of Remission of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis Clinical studies supporting the use of Asacol tablets in the maintenance of remission of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis in adults included a randomized, double-blind, multi-center, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 6 months' duration in 264 patients (Study 4 [see Clinical Studies ( 14.2 )]. In Study 4, a randomized, double-blind, multi-center, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 6 months' duration, 87 patients were randomized to receive Asacol 1.6 grams/day compared to 87 patients randomized to placebo. The average age of patients in Study 4 was 42 years and 55 % of patients were male. Adverse reactions leading to study withdrawal in patients using Asacol included (each in one patient): anxiety, stomatitis and asthenia. In addition to the adverse reactions listed in Table 2, the following occurred at a frequency of 2% or greater in patients who received Asacol in Study 4: abdominal enlargement, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, infection, joint disorder, nervousness, paresthesia, hemorrhoids, tenesmus, urinary frequency, and vision abnormalities. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported above in clinical trials involving Asacol, the adverse reactions listed below have been identified during post-approval use of Asacol and other mesalamine-containing products. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: Neck pain, facial edema, edema, lupus-like syndrome, drug fever. Cardiovascular: Pericarditis, myocarditis [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )]. Gastrointestinal: Anorexia, pancreatitis, gastritis, increased appetite, cholecystitis, dry mouth, oral ulcers, perforated peptic ulcer, bloody diarrhea. Hematologic: Agranulocytosis aplastic anemia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, leukopenia, anemia, lymphadenopathy. Musculoskeletal: Gout. Nervous: Depression, somnolence, emotional lability, hyperesthesia, vertigo, confusion, tremor, peripheral neuropathy, transverse myelitis, Guillain-Barre syndrome. Renal: Renal failure, interstitial nephritis, minimal change nephropathy [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. Respiratory/Pulmonary: Eosinophilic pneumonia, interstitial pneumonitis, asthma exacerbation, pleuritis. Skin: Alopecia, psoriasis, pyoderma gangrenosus, dry skin, erythema nodosum, urticaria. Special Senses: Eye pain, taste perversion, blurred vision, tinnitus. Urogenital: Dysuria, urinary urgency, hematuria, epididymitis, menorrhagia, reversible oligospermia. Laboratory Abnormalities: Elevated AST (SGOT) or ALT (SGPT), elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated GGT, elevated LDH, elevated bilirubin, elevated serum creatinine and BUN."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most serious adverse reactions seen in Asacol HD clinical trials or with other products that contain mesalamine or are metabolized to mesalamine were: Renal impairment, including renal failure (rare) [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Acute intolerance syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Hypersensitivity reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Hepatic failure [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] The most common adverse reactions (observed in greater than 2 percent of patients) were headache, nausea, nasopharyngitis, abdominal pain, and worsening of ulcerative colitis (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Warner Chilcott at 1-800-521-8813 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Asacol HD has been evaluated in 896 patients with ulcerative colitis in controlled studies. Three six- week, active-controlled studies were conducted comparing Asacol HD 4.8 grams/day with Asacol (mesalamine) 2.4 grams/day in patients with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. In these studies, 727 patients were dosed with the Asacol HD tablet and 732 patients were dosed with the Asacol 400 mg tablet. (One Asacol HD 800 mg tablet cannot be substituted for two Asacol 400 mg tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ].) The most common reactions reported in the Asacol HD group were headache (4.7 percent), nausea (2.8 percent), nasopharyngitis (2.5 percent), abdominal pain (2.3 percent), exacerbation of ulcerative colitis (2.3 percent), diarrhea (1.7 percent), and dyspepsia (1.7 percent); Table 1 enumerates adverse reactions that occurred in the three studies. The most common reactions in patients with moderately active ulcerative colitis (602 patients dosed with Asacol HD and 618 patients dosed with the Asacol 400 mg) were the same as all treated patients. Discontinuations due to adverse reactions occurred in 3.9 percent of patients in the Asacol HD group and in 4.2 percent of patients in the Asacol 400 mg tablet comparator group. The most common cause for discontinuation was gastrointestinal symptoms associated with ulcerative colitis. Severe adverse reactions occurred in 7.6 percent of patients in the Asacol HD group and in 7.6 percent of patients in the Asacol 400 mg tablet comparator group. Most of these reactions were gastrointestinal symptoms related to ulcerative colitis. Serious adverse reactions occurred in 0.8 percent of patients in the Asacol HD group and in 1.8 percent of patients in the Asacol 400 mg tablet comparator group. The majority involved the gastrointestinal system. Table 1. Adverse Reactions Occurring in 1 Percent or More of All Treated Patients (Three studies combined) Asacol* 2.4 g/day Asacol HD* 4.8 g/day (400 mg Tablet) (800 mg Tablet) Adverse Reaction (N = 732) (N = 727) Headache 4.9 % 4.7 % Nausea 2.9 % 2.8 % Nasopharyngitis 1.4 % 2.5 % Abdominal pain 2.3 % 2.3 % Ulcerative Colitis 2.7 % 2.3 % Diarrhea 1.9 % 1.7 % Dyspepsia 0.8 % 1.7 % Vomiting 1.6 % 1.4 % Flatulence 0.7 % 1.2 % Influenza 1.2 % 1.0 % Pyrexia 1.2 % 0.7 % Cough 1.4 % 0.3 % N = number of patients within specified treatment group Percent = percentage of patients in category and treatment group *One Asacol HD 800 mg tablet cannot be substituted for two Asacol 400 mg tablets [ see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3 ) ] . 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported above in clinical trials involving the Asacol HD tablet, the adverse events listed below have been reported in controlled clinical trials, open label studies, literature reports, or foreign and domestic marketing experience with Asacol 400 mg tablets or other products that contain mesalamine or are metabolized to mesalamine. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: Facial edema, edema, peripheral edema, asthenia, chills, infection, malaise, pain, neck pain, chest pain, back pain, abdominal enlargement, lupus-like syndrome, drug fever (rare). Cardiovascular: Pericarditis (rare) and myocarditis (rare) [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )], pericardial effusion, vasodilation, migraine. Gastrointestinal: Dry mouth, stomatitis, oral ulcers, anorexia, increased appetite, eructation, pancreatitis, cholecystitis, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, perforated peptic ulcer (rare), constipation, hemorrhoids, rectal hemorrhage, bloody diarrhea, tenesmus, stool abnormality. Hepatic: There have been rare reports of hepatotoxicity, including jaundice, cholestatic jaundice, hepatitis, and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure. Some of these cases were fatal. Asymptomatic elevations of liver enzymes which usually resolve during continued use or with discontinuation of the drug have also been reported. One case of Kawasaki-like syndrome, that included changes in liver enzymes, was also reported [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )]. He m atologi c: Agranulocytosis (rare), aplastic anemia (rare), anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, eosinophilia, lymphadenopathy. Musculoskeleta l: Gout, rheumatoid arthritis, arthritis, arthralgia, joint disorder, myalgia, hypertonia. Neurological/Psychiatric: Anxiety, depression, somnolence, insomnia, nervousness, confusion, emotional lability, dizziness, vertigo, tremor, paresthesia, hyperesthesia, peripheral neuropathy (rare), Guillain-Barre syndrome (rare), and transverse myelitis (rare). Respirator y /Pul m onar y: Sinusitis, rhinitis, pharyngitis, asthma exacerbation, pleuritis, bronchitis, eosinophilic pneumonia, interstitial pneumonitis. Ski n: Alopecia, psoriasis (rare), pyoderma gangrenosum (rare), erythema nodosum, acne, dry skin, sweating, pruritus, urticaria, rash. Special Senses: Ear pain, tinnitus, ear congestion, ear disorder, conjunctivitis, eye pain, blurred vision, vision abnormality, taste perversion. Renal/Urogenital: Renal failure (rare), interstitial nephritis, minimal change nephropathy [ see W a rnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ], dysuria, urinary frequency and urgency, hematuria, epididymitis, decreased libido, dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia. Laboratory Abnor m alitie s: Elevated AST (SGOT) or ALT (SGPT), elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated GGT, elevated LDH, elevated bilirubin, elevated serum creatinine and BUN."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most serious adverse reactions seen in CANASA clinical trials or with other products that contain or are metabolized to mesalamine are: Renal impairment, including renal failure [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Mesalamine-induced acute intolerance syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hypersensitivity reactions [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hepatic impairment, including hepatic failure [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] The most common adverse reactions occuring in more than 1% of mesalamine suppository treated patients are: dizziness, rectal pain, fever, rash, acne and colitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Aptalis Pharma US, Inc. at 1-800-472-2634 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The most frequent adverse reactions observed in the double-blind placebo-controlled trials are summarized in the Table 1 below. Table 1: ADVERSE REACTIONS OCCURRING IN MORE THAN 1% OF MESALAMINE SUPPOSITORY TREATED PATIENTS (COMPARISON TO PLACEBO) Symptom Mesalamine (n = 177) Placebo (n = 84) N % N % Dizziness 5 3 2 2.4 Rectal Pain 3 1.8 0 0 Fever 2 1.2 0 0 Rash 2 1.2 0 0 Acne 2 1.2 0 0 Colitis 2 1.2 0 0 In a multicenter, open-label, randomized, parallel group study comparing the CANASA 1000 mg suppository administered nightly to that of the CANASA 500 mg suppository twice daily, the two treatment groups had similar adverse event profiles. The most frequent AEs were headache (14.4%), flatulence (5.2%), abdominal pain (5.2%), diarrhea (3.1%), and nausea (3.1%). Three (3) patients had to discontinue medication because of an adverse reaction; one of these adverse reactions (headache) was deemed possibly related to study medication. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported above in clinical trials involving CANASA, the adverse reactions listed below have been identified during post-approval use of CANASA and other mesalamine-containing products. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: drug fever, fatigue, lupus-like syndrome, medication residue Cardiac Disorders: myocarditis, pericarditis, pericardial effusion Eye disorders: eye swelling Gastrointestinal Disorders: abdominal cramps, abdominal distension, anal pruritus, anorectal discomfort, constipation, feces discolored, flatulence, frequent bowel movements, gastrointestinal bleeding, mucus stools, nausea, painful defecation, pancreatitis, proctalgia, rectal discharge, rectal tenesmus, stomach discomfort, vomiting Hepatic Disorders: cholestatic jaundice, hepatitis, jaundice, Kawasaki-like syndrome including changes in liver enzymes, liver necrosis, liver failure Hematologic Disorders: agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, thrombocytopenia Neurological/Psychiatric Disorders: Guillain-Barre syndrome, peripheral neuropathy, transverse myelitis Renal Disorders: interstitial nephritis Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: hypersensitivity pneumonitis (including allergic alveolitis, eosinophilic pneumonitis, interstitial pneumonitis) Skin and subcutaneous tissue Disorder: alopecia, erythema, erythema nodosum, pruritus, psoriasis, pyoderma gangrenosum, urticaria Urogenital: reversible oligospermia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most serious adverse reactions seen in DELZICOL clinical trials or with other products that contain or are metabolized to mesalamine are: Renal impairment, including renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Acute intolerance syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hepatic failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] The data presented in Section 6.1 are from clinical trials conducted with mesalamine delayed-release tablets. DELZICOL is bioequivalent to these mesalamine delayed-release tablets. The most common adverse reactions (observed in greater than or equal to 5% of adults in clinical trials) were abdominal pain, eructation, pain, back pain, rash, dyspepsia, rhinitis, flu syndrome, asthenia, flatulence, vomiting, fever, arthralgia, constipation, and gastrointestinal bleeding (6.1) Adverse reactions in children were similar (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Warner Chilcott at 1-800-521-8813 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In total, mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg tablets have been evaluated in 2690 patients with ulcerative colitis in controlled and open-label trials. Adverse events presented in the following sections may occur regardless of length of therapy and similar events have been reported in short- and long-term studies and in the postmarketing setting. Clinical studies supporting mesalamine delayed-release tablets use for the treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis included two 6-week, placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind studies in adults with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis (Studies 1 and 2), and one 6-week, randomized, double-blind, study of 2 dose levels in children with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. Clinical studies supporting the use of mesalamine delayed-release tablets in the maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis included a 6-month, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center study and four active-controlled maintenance trials comparing mesalamine delayed-release with sulfasalazine. Mesalamine delayed-release tablets have been evaluated in 427 adults and 82 children with ulcerative colitis in these controlled studies. Treatment of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis in Adults In two 6-week placebo-controlled clinical studies (Studies 1 and 2) involving 245 patients, 155 of whom were randomized to mesalamine delayed-release tablets [see Clinical Studies (14.1)], 3.2% of the mesalamine delayed-release tablets-treated patients discontinued therapy because of adverse reactions as compared to 2.2% of the placebo-treated patients. The average age of patients in Study 1 was 42 years and 48% of patients were male. The average age of patients in Study 2 was 42 years and 59% of patients were male. Adverse reactions leading to withdrawal from mesalamine delayed-release tablets included (each in one patient): diarrhea and colitis flare; dizziness, nausea, joint pain, and headache; rash, lethargy and constipation; dry mouth, malaise, lower back discomfort, mild disorientation, mild indigestion and cramping; headache, nausea, aching, vomiting, muscle cramps, a stuffy head, plugged ears, and fever. Adverse reactions in patients treated with mesalamine delayed-release tablets occurring at a frequency of at least 2% and at a rate greater than placebo in 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (Studies 1 and 2) are listed in Table 1 below. Table 1: Adverse Reactions Reported in Two Six-Week Placebo-Controlled Trials (Studies 1 and 2) Experienced by at Least 2% of patients in the mesalamine delayed-release tablets Group and at a Rate Greater than Placebo % of Patients with Adverse Reactions Adverse Reaction mesalamine delayed-release tablets Placebo (n = 152) (n = 87) Abdominal pain 18 14 Eructation 16 15 Pain 14 8 Back pain 7 5 Rash 6 3 Dyspepsia 6 1 Arthralgia 5 3 Vomiting 5 2 Constipation 5 1 Chest pain 3 2 Chills 3 2 Peripheral edema 3 2 Myalgia 3 1 Sweating 3 1 Pruritus 3 0 Acne 2 1 Malaise 2 1 Arthritis 2 0 Treatment of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis in Pediatric Patients 5 to 17 Years Old \\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213A randomized, double-blind, 6-week study of 2 dose levels of mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg tablets (Study 3) was conducted in 82 pediatric patients 5 to 17 years of age with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. All patients were divided by body weight category (17 to less than 33 kg, 33 to less than 54 kg, and 54 to 90 kg) and randomly assigned to receive a low dose (1.2, 2.0, and 2.4 g/day for the respective body weight category) or a high dose (2.0, 3.6, and 4.8 g/day). The high dose is not an approved dosage because it was not found to be more effective than the approved dose [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Duration of exposure to mesalamine among the 82 patients in the study ranged from 12 to 50 days (mean of 40 days in each dose group). The majority (88%) of patients in each group were treated for more than 5 weeks. Table 2 provides a summary of the specific reported adverse reactions (ARs). Table 2: Adverse Reactions Reported in One Six-Week Trial (Study 3) Experienced by at Least 5% of Patients in the Low Dose Group or High Dose Group % of Patients with Adverse Reactions Low Dose High Dose Adverse Reaction (n=41) (n=41) Nasopharyngitis 15 12 Ulcerative Colitis 12 5 Headache 10 5 Abdominal pain 10 2 Dizziness 7 2 Sinusitis 7 0 Rash 5 5 Cough 5 0 Diarrhea 5 0 Fatigue 2 10 Pyrexia 0 7 Increased Lipase 0 5 Low Dose = mesalamine 400 mg delayed-release tablet 1.2 - 2.4 g/day; High Dose = mesalamine 400 mg delayed-release tablet 2.0 - 4.8 g/day. Dosage was dependent on body weight. Adverse Reactions reported at the 1-week telephone follow-up visit are included. Twelve percent of the patients in the low dose group and 5% of the patients in the high dose group had serious adverse reactions (ARs). Ulcerative colitis was reported as a serious AR in one subject in each group. Other serious ARs consisted of sinusitis, abdominal pain, decreased body mass index, adenovirus infection, bloody diarrhea, sclerosing cholangitis, and pancreatitis in one subject each in the low dose group and anemia and syncope in one subject each in the high dose group. Seven patients were withdrawn from the study because of ARs: 5 (12%) in the low dose group (ulcerative colitis, adenovirus infection, sclerosing cholangitis, pancreatitis) and 2 (5%) in the high dose group (increased amylase and increased lipase, upper abdominal pain). In general, the nature and severity of reactions in the pediatric population was similar to those reported in adult populations of patients with ulcerative colitis. \\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213 Maintenance of Remission of Ulcerative Colitis in Adults In a 6-month placebo-controlled maintenance trial involving 264 patients (Study 4) 177 of whom were randomized to mesalamine delayed-release tablets, six (3.4%) of the patients using mesalamine delayed-release tablets discontinued therapy because of adverse reactions, as compared to four (4.6%) of patients using placebo [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. The average age of patients in Study 4 was 42 years and 55% of patients were male. Adverse reactions leading to study withdrawal in patients using mesalamine delayed-release tablets included (each in one patient): anxiety; headache; pruritus; decreased libido; rheumatoid arthritis; and stomatitis and asthenia. In addition to reactions listed in Table 1, the following adverse reactions occurred in patients using mesalamine delayed-release tablets at a frequency of 2% or greater in Study 4: abdominal enlargement, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, infection, joint disorder, migraine, nervousness, paresthesia, rectal disorder, rectal hemorrhage, stool abnormalities, tenesmus, urinary frequency, vasodilation, and vision abnormalities. In 3342 patients in uncontrolled clinical studies, the following adverse reactions occurred at a frequency of 5% or greater and appeared to increase in frequency with increasing dose: asthenia, fever, flu syndrome, pain, abdominal pain, back pain, flatulence, gastrointestinal bleeding, arthralgia, and rhinitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported above in clinical trials involving mesalamine delayed-release tablets, the adverse reactions listed below have been identified during post-approval use of mesalamine delayed-release tablets and other mesalamine-containing products. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: Neck pain, facial edema, edema, lupus-like syndrome, drug fever. Cardiovascular: Pericarditis, myocarditis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Gastrointestinal: Anorexia, pancreatitis, gastritis, increased appetite, cholecystitis, dry mouth, oral ulcers, perforated peptic ulcer bloody diarrhea. Hematologic: Agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, leukopenia, anemia, lymphadenopathy. Musculoskeletal: Gout. Nervous: Depression, somnolence, emotional lability, hyperesthesia, vertigo, confusion, tremor, peripheral neuropathy, transverse myelitis, Guillain-Barre syndrome. Renal: Renal failure, interstitial nephritis, minimal change nephropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Respiratory/Pulmonary: Eosinophilic pneumonia, interstitial pneumonitis, asthma exacerbation, pleuritis. Skin: Alopecia, psoriasis, pyoderma gangrenosus, dry skin, erythema nodosum, urticaria. Special Senses: Eye pain, taste perversion, blurred vision, tinnitus. Urogenital: Dysuria, urinary urgency, hematuria, epididymitis, menorrhagia, reversible oligospermia. Laboratory Abnormalities: Elevated AST (SGOT) or ALT (SGPT), elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated GGT, elevated LDH, elevated bilirubin, elevated serum creatinine and BUN."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most serious adverse reactions seen in DELZICOL clinical trials or with other products that contain or are metabolized to mesalamine are: Renal impairment, including renal failure [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.1 Acute intolerance syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.2 Hypersensitivity reactions [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.3 Hepatic failure [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.4 The data presented in Section 6.1 are from clinical trials conducted with mesalamine delayed-release tablets. DELZICOL is bioequivalent to these mesalamine delayed-release tablets. The most common adverse reactions (observed in greater than or equal to 5% of adults in clinical trials) were abdominal pain, eructation, pain, back pain, rash, dyspepsia, rhinitis, flu syndrome, asthenia, flatulence, vomiting, fever, arthralgia, constipation, and gastrointestinal bleeding ( ) Adverse reactions in children were similar ( ) 6.1 6.1 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or Warner Chilcott at 1-800-521-8813 www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In total, mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg tablets have been evaluated in 2690 patients with ulcerative colitis in controlled and open-label trials. Adverse events presented in the following sections may occur regardless of length of therapy and similar events have been reported in short- and long-term studies and in the postmarketing setting. Clinical studies supporting mesalamine delayed-release tablets use for the treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis included two 6-week, placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind studies in adults with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis (Studies 1 and 2), and one 6-week, randomized, double-blind, study of 2 dose levels in children with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. Clinical studies supporting the use of mesalamine delayed-release tablets in the maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis included a 6-month, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center study and four active-controlled maintenance trials comparing mesalamine delayed-release with sulfasalazine. Mesalamine delayed-release tablets have been evaluated in 427 adults and 82 children with ulcerative colitis in these controlled studies. Treatment of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis in Adults In two 6-week placebo-controlled clinical studies (Studies 1 and 2) involving 245 patients, 155 of whom were randomized to mesalamine delayed-release tablets , 3.2% of the mesalamine delayed-release tablets-treated patients discontinued therapy because of adverse reactions as compared to 2.2% of the placebo-treated patients. The average age of patients in Study 1 was 42 years and 48% of patients were male. The average age of patients in Study 2 was 42 years and 59% of patients were male. Adverse reactions leading to withdrawal from mesalamine delayed-release tablets included (each in one patient): diarrhea and colitis flare; dizziness, nausea, joint pain, and headache; rash, lethargy and constipation; dry mouth, malaise, lower back discomfort, mild disorientation, mild indigestion and cramping; headache, nausea, aching, vomiting, muscle cramps, a stuffy head, plugged ears, and fever. [see Clinical Studies ( )] 14.1 Adverse reactions in patients treated with mesalamine delayed-release tablets occurring at a frequency of at least 2% and at a rate greater than placebo in 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (Studies 1 and 2) are listed in below. Table 1 Table 1: Adverse Reactions Reported in Two Six-Week Placebo-Controlled Trials (Studies 1 and 2) Experienced by at Least 2% of patients in the mesalamine delayed-release tablets Group and at a Rate Greater than Placebo % of Patients with Adverse Reactions Adverse Reaction mesalamine delayed-release tablets Placebo (n = 152) (n = 87) Abdominal pain 18 14 Eructation 16 15 Pain 14 8 Back pain 7 5 Rash 6 3 Dyspepsia 6 1 Arthralgia 5 3 Vomiting 5 2 Constipation 5 1 Chest pain 3 2 Chills 3 2 Peripheral edema 3 2 Myalgia 3 1 Sweating 3 1 Pruritus 3 0 Acne 2 1 Malaise 2 1 Arthritis 2 0 Treatment of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis in Pediatric Patients 5 to 17 Years Old \\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213A randomized, double-blind, 6-week study of 2 dose levels of mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg tablets (Study 3) was conducted in 82 pediatric patients 5 to 17 years of age with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. All patients were divided by body weight category (17 to less than 33 kg, 33 to less than 54 kg, and 54 to 90 kg) and randomly assigned to receive a low dose (1.2, 2.0, and 2.4 g/day for the respective body weight category) or a high dose (2.0, 3.6, and 4.8 g/day). The high dose is not an approved dosage because it was not found to be more effective than the approved dose and [see Dosage and Administration ( ) 2.1 Clinical Studies ( )]. 14.1 Duration of exposure to mesalamine among the 82 patients in the study ranged from 12 to 50 days (mean of 40 days in each dose group). The majority (88%) of patients in each group were treated for more than 5 weeks. provides a summary of the specific reported adverse reactions (ARs). Table 2 Table 2: Adverse Reactions Reported in One Six-Week Trial (Study 3) Experienced by at Least 5% of Patients in the Low Dose Group or High Dose Group % of Patients with Adverse Reactions Adverse Reaction Low Dose High Dose (n=41) (n=41) Nasopharyngitis 15 12 Ulcerative Colitis 12 5 Headache 10 5 Abdominal pain 10 2 Dizziness 7 2 Sinusitis 7 0 Rash 5 5 Cough 5 0 Diarrhea 5 0 Fatigue 2 10 Pyrexia 0 7 Increased Lipase 0 5 Low Dose = mesalamine 400mg delayed-release tablet 1.2 - 2.4 g/day; High Dose = mesalamine 400mg delayed-release tablet 2.0 - 4.8 g/day. Dosage was dependent on body weight. Adverse Reactions reported at the 1-week telephone follow-up visit are included. Twelve percent of the patients in the low dose group and 5% of the patients in the high dose group had serious adverse reactions (ARs). Ulcerative colitis was reported as a serious AR in one subject in each group. Other serious ARs consisted of sinusitis, abdominal pain, decreased body mass index, adenovirus infection, bloody diarrhea, sclerosing cholangitis, and pancreatitis in one subject each in the low dose group and anemia and syncope in one subject each in the high dose group. Seven patients were withdrawn from the study because of ARs: 5 (12%) in the low dose group (ulcerative colitis, adenovirus infection, sclerosing cholangitis, pancreatitis) and 2 (5%) in the high dose group (increased amylase and increased lipase, upper abdominal pain). In general, the nature and severity of reactions in the pediatric population was similar to those reported in adult populations of patients with ulcerative colitis. \\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213\\342\\200\\213 Maintenance of Remission of Ulcerative Colitis in Adults In a 6-month placebo-controlled maintenance trial involving 264 patients (Study 4) 177 of whom were randomized to mesalamine delayed-release tablets, six (3.4%) of the patients using mesalamine delayed-release tablets discontinued therapy because of adverse reactions, as compared to four (4.6%) of patients using placebo . The average age of patients in Study 4 was 42 years and 55% of patients were male. Adverse reactions leading to study withdrawal in patients using mesalamine delayed-release tablets included (each in one patient): anxiety; headache; pruritus; decreased libido; rheumatoid arthritis; and stomatitis and asthenia. [see Clinical Studies ( )] 14.2 In addition to reactions listed in , the following adverse reactions occurred in patients using mesalamine delayed-release tablets at a frequency of 2% or greater in Study 4: abdominal enlargement, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, infection, joint disorder, migraine, nervousness, paresthesia, rectal disorder, rectal hemorrhage, stool abnormalities, tenesmus, urinary frequency, vasodilation, and vision abnormalities. Table 1 In 3342 patients in uncontrolled clinical studies, the following adverse reactions occurred at a frequency of 5% or greater and appeared to increase in frequency with increasing dose: asthenia, fever, flu syndrome, pain, abdominal pain, back pain, flatulence, gastrointestinal bleeding, arthralgia, and rhinitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported above in clinical trials involving mesalamine delayed-release tablets, the adverse reactions listed below have been identified during post-approval use of mesalamine delayed-release tablets and other mesalamine-containing products. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Neck pain, facial edema, edema, lupus-like syndrome, drug fever. Body as a Whole: Pericarditis, myocarditis Cardiovascular: [see Warnings and Precautions ( )]. 5.3 Anorexia, pancreatitis, gastritis, increased appetite, cholecystitis, dry mouth, oral ulcers, perforated peptic ulcer bloody diarrhea. Gastrointestinal: Agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, leukopenia, anemia, lymphadenopathy. Hematologic: Gout. Musculoskeletal: Depression, somnolence, emotional lability, hyperesthesia, vertigo, confusion, tremor, peripheral neuropathy, transverse myelitis, Guillain-Barre syndrome. Nervous: Renal failure, interstitial nephritis, minimal change nephropathy . Renal: [see Warnings and Precautions ( )] 5.1 Eosinophilic pneumonia, interstitial pneumonitis, asthma exacerbation, pleuritis. Respiratory/Pulmonary: Alopecia, psoriasis, pyoderma gangrenosus, dry skin, erythema nodosum, urticaria. Skin: Eye pain, taste perversion, blurred vision, tinnitus. Special Senses: Dysuria, urinary urgency, hematuria, epididymitis, menorrhagia, reversible oligospermia. Urogenital: Elevated AST (SGOT) or ALT (SGPT), elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated GGT, elevated LDH, elevated bilirubin, elevated serum creatinine and BUN. Laboratory Abnormalities:"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most serious adverse reactions seen in DELZICOL clinical trials or with other products that contain or are metabolized to mesalamine are: Renal Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Mesalamine-Induced Acute Intolerance Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] Hepatic Failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] The most common adverse reactions (>=5%) are A dults : eructation, abdominal pain, constipation, dizziness, rhinitis, back pain, and rash (6.1) P ediatric s : nasopharyngitis, headache, abdominal pain, dizziness, sinusitis, rash, cough and diarrhea (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Allergan at 1-800- 433-8871or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of DELZICOL has been established based on adequate and well-controlled studies of mesalamine delayed-release tablets. In total, mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg tablets have been evaluated in 2690 patients with ulcerative colitis in controlled and open-label trials. Below is a description of the adverse reactions of mesalamine delayed-release tablets in these adequate and well-controlled studies. Clinical studies supporting mesalamine delayed-release tablets use for the treatment of mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis included two 6-week, placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind studies in adults with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis (Studies 1 and 2), and one 6-week, randomized, double-blind, study of 2 dosage levels in children with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis (Study 3). Clinical studies supporting the use of mesalamine delayed-release tablets in the maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis included a 6-month, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center study (Study 4) and four active-controlled maintenance trials comparing mesalamine delayed-release with sulfasalazine. Mesalamine delayed-release tablets have been evaluated in 427 adults and 107 children with ulcerative colitis in these controlled studies. Treatment of Mildly to Moderately Active Ulcerative Colitis Adults In a 6-week placebo-controlled clinical study (Study 1) involving 105 patients, 53 of whom were randomized to mesalamine delayed-release tablets 2.4 grams per day [see Clinical Studies (14.1) ], 4% of the mesalamine delayed release tablets -treated patients in 2.4 grams per day group discontinued therapy because of adverse reactions as compared to 0% of the placebo-treated patients. The average age of patients was 41 years and 49 % of patients were male. Adverse reactions leading to withdrawal from mesalamine delayed-release tablets included (each in one patient): diarrhea and colitis flare; dizziness, nausea, joint pain, and headache. The most common adverse reactions in patients treated with mesalamine delayed release tablets 2.4 grams per day in Study 1 are listed in Table 2 below. Table 2. Most Common Adverse Reactions Reported in Study 1 for the Treatment of Mild to Moderate Ulcerative Colitis in Adults* Adverse Reaction % of Patients with Adverse Reactions Mesalamine Delayed release 2.4 grams per day Placebo (n = 53) (n = 52) Eructation 26 19 Abdominal pain 21 12 Constipation 11 0 Dizziness 9 8 Rhinitis 8 6 Back pain 6 4 Rash 6 4 Dyspepsia 4 0 Flu syndrome 4 2 * At Least 2% of Patients in the Mesalamine Delayed Release Tablets Group and at a Rate Greater than Placebo Pediatric Patients 5 to 17 Years Old A randomized, double-blind, 6-week study of 2 dosage levels of mesalamine delayed-release 400 mg tablets (Study 3) was conducted in 82 pediatric patients 5 to 17 years of age with mildly to moderately active ulcerative colitis. All patients were divided by body weight category (17 to less than 33 kg, 33 to less than 54 kg, and 54 to 90 kg) and randomly assigned to receive a low dosage (1.2, 2, and 2.4 grams per day for the respective body weight category) or a high dosage (2.0, 3.6, and 4.8 grams per day). The high dosage regimen is not recommended because it was not found to be more effective than the recommended low dosage regimen [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) , Clinical Studies (14.1) ]. Duration of exposure to mesalamine among the 82 patients in the study ranged from 12 to 50 days (mean of 40 days in each dosage group). The majority (88%) of patients in each group were treated for more than 5 weeks. Table 3 provides a summary of the specific reported adverse reactions. Table 3. Adverse Reactions >= 5% Reported in Study 3 for the Treatment of Mild to Moderate Ulcerative Colitis in Pediatric Patients* Adverse Reaction % of Patients with Adverse Reactions Low Dosage High Dosage (n=41) (n=41) Nasopharyngitis 15 12 Headache 10 5 Abdominal pain 10 2 Dizziness 7 2 Sinusitis 7 0 Rash 5 5 Cough 5 0 Diarrhea 5 0 Fatigue 2 10 Pyrexia 0 7 Increased Lipase 0 5 Low Dosage = mesalamine 400 mg delayed-release tablet 1.2 to 2.4 grams/day; High Dosage = mesalamine 400 mg delayed-release tablet 2.0 to 4.8 grams/day. Dosage was dependent on body weight. Adverse Reactions reported at the 1-week telephone follow-up visit are included. * At Least 5% of Patients in the low dosage or high dosage group Twelve percent of the patients in the low dosage group (5 patients) and 2% of the patients in the high dosage group (1 patient) had serious adverse reactions. The serious adverse reactions consisted of sinusitis, adenovirus infection, and pancreatitis in one patient each in the low dosage group. Abdominal pain and decreased body mass index occurred in one patient and bloody diarrhea and sclerosing cholangitis also occurred in one patient in the low dosage group. Anemia and syncope occurred in one patient in the high dosage group. Five patients were withdrawn from the study due to adverse reactions: 3 (7%) in the low dosage group (1 patient each with adenovirus infection, sclerosing cholangitis, and pancreatitis) and 2 patients (5%) in the high dosage group (1 patient with increased amylase and increased lipase, and 1 patient with upper abdominal pain). In general, the nature and severity of reactions in the pediatric population was similar to those reported in adult populations of patients with ulcerative colitis. Maintenance of Remission of Ulcerative Colitis Clinical studies supporting the use of mesalamine delayed release tablets in the maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis in adults included a randomized, double-blind, multi-center, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 6 months' duration in 264 patients (Study 4) [see Clinical Studies (14.2) ]. In Study 4, a randomized, double-blind, multi-center, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 6 months' duration, 87 patients were randomized to receive mesalamine delayed release tablets 1.6 grams per /day compared to 87 patients randomized to placebo. The average age of patients in Study 4 was 42 years and 55 % of patients were male. Adverse reactions leading to study withdrawal in patients using mesalamine delayed release tablets included (each in one patient): anxiety, stomatitis and asthenia. In addition to the adverse reactions listed in Table 2, the following occurred at a frequency of 2% or greater in patients who received mesalamine delayed-release tablets in Study 4: abdominal enlargement, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, infection, joint disorder, nervousness, paresthesia, hemorrhoids, tenesmus, urinary frequency and vision abnormalities. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported above in clinical trials involving mesalamine delayed-release tablets, the adverse reactions listed below have been identified during post-approval use of mesalamine delayed-release tablets and other mesalamine-containing products. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: Neck pain, facial edema, edema, lupus-like syndrome, drug fever. Cardiovascular: Pericarditis, myocarditis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ]. Gastrointestinal: Anorexia, pancreatitis, gastritis, increased appetite, cholecystitis, dry mouth, oral ulcers, perforated peptic ulcer, bloody diarrhea. Hematologic: Agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, leukopenia, anemia, lymphadenopathy. Musculoskeletal: Gout. Nervous: Depression, somnolence, emotional lability, hyperesthesia, vertigo, confusion, tremor, peripheral neuropathy, transverse myelitis, Guillain-Barre syndrome. Renal: Renal failure, interstitial nephritis, minimal change nephropathy [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. Respiratory/Pulmonary: Eosinophilic pneumonia, interstitial pneumonitis, asthma exacerbation, pleuritis. Skin: Alopecia, psoriasis, pyoderma gangrenosus, dry skin, erythema nodosum, urticaria. Special Senses: Eye pain, taste perversion, blurred vision, tinnitus. Urogenital: Dysuria, urinary urgency, hematuria, epididymitis, menorrhagia, reversible oligospermia. Laboratory Abnormalities: Elevated AST (SGOT) or ALT (SGPT), elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated GGT, elevated LDH, elevated bilirubin, elevated serum creatinine and BUN."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most serious adverse reactions seen in Lialda clinical trials or with other products that contain or are metabolized to mesalamine are: Renal impairment, including renal failure [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Mesalamine-induced acute intolerance syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hypersensitivity reactions [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hepatic impairment, including hepatic failure [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] The most common adverse reactions (incidence >= 2%) are ulcerative colitis, headache, flatulence, liver function test abnormality, and abdominal pain. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Shire US Inc. at 1-800-828-2088 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. LIALDA has been evaluated in 1368 ulcerative colitis patients in controlled and open-label trials. Induction of Remission In two 8-week placebo-controlled clinical trials involving 535 ulcerative colitis patients, 356 received 2.4 g/day or 4.8 g/day LIALDA tablets and 179 received placebo. The most frequent adverse reaction leading to discontinuation from LIALDA therapy was exacerbation of ulcerative colitis (0.8%). Pancreatitis occurred in less than 1% of patients during clinical trials and resulted in discontinuation of therapy with LIALDA in patients experiencing this event. Adverse reactions occurring in LIALDA or placebo groups at a frequency of at least 1% in two 8-week, double blind, placebo-controlled trials are listed in Table 1. The most common adverse reactions with LIALDA 2.4 g/day and 4.8 g/day were headache (5.6% and 3.4%, respectively) and flatulence (4% and 2.8%, respectively). Table 1: Adverse Reactions in Two Eight-Week Placebo-Controlled Trials Experienced by at Least 1% of the LIALDA Group and at a Rate Greater than Placeboa Adverse Reaction LIALDA 2.4 g/day (n = 177) LIALDA 4.8 g/day (n = 179) Placebo (n = 179) Headache 10 (5.6%) 6 (3.4%) 1 (0.6%) Flatulence 7 (4%) 5 (2.8%) 5 (2.8%) Liver Function Test Abnormal 1 (0.6%) 4 (2.2%) 2 (1.1%) Alopecia 0 2 (1.1%) 0 Pruritus 1 (0.6%) 2 (1.1%) 2 (1.1%) a: Adverse reactions for which the placebo rate equalled or exceeded the rate for at least one of the LIALDA treatment groups were abdominal pain, dizziness, dyspepsia, and nausea. The following adverse reactions, presented by body system, were reported infrequently (less than 1%) by LIALDA-treated ulcerative colitis patients in the two controlled trials. Cardiac Disorder: tachycardia Vascular Disorders: hypertension, hypotension Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: acne, prurigo, rash, urticaria Gastrointestinal Disorders: abdominal distention, colitis, diarrhea, pancreatitis, rectal polyp, vomiting Investigations: decreased platelet count Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: arthralgia, back pain Nervous System Disorders: somnolence, tremor Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: pharyngolaryngeal pain General Disorders and Administrative Site Disorders: asthenia, face edema, fatigue, pyrexia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: ear pain Maintenance of Remission of Ulcerative Colitis The dose evaluated in three studies of LIALDA given for the maintenance of remission in patients with ulcerative colitis was 1.2 g twice daily or 2.4 g/once daily. One of these studies was a 6-month double-blind comparator study while two were 12- to 14-month open-label studies. The most common adverse reactions with LIALDA in the maintenance arms of long-term trials were colitis ulcerative (5.8%), headache (2.9%), liver function test abnormal (2.3%), and abdominal pain (2.2%). Of the 1082 subjects in the all maintenance studies pooled, 1.9% had severe adverse reactions. The most common severe adverse reactions were gastrointestinal disorders; these were mainly symptoms associated with ulcerative colitis. Table 2: Adverse Reactions in Three Maintenance Trials Experienced by at Least 1% of the LIALDA Group (maintenance phases of trials) All LIALDA (n=1082) Adverse Reaction n % Colitis ulcerative 63 (5.8%) Headache 31 (2.9%) Liver function test abnormal 25 (2.3%) Abdominal pain 24 (2.2%) Diarrhea 18 (1.7%) Abdominal distension 14 (1.3%) Abdominal pain upper 13 (1.2%) Dyspepsia 13 (1.2%) Back pain 13 (1.2%) Rash 13 (1.2%) Arthralgia 12 (1.1%) Fatigue 11 (1.0%) Hypertension 10 (1.0%) The following adverse reactions, presented by body system, were reported infrequently (less than 1%) by LIALDA-treated ulcerative colitis patients in the three long-term maintenance trials (maintenance phases of these trials): Cardiac Disorder: tachycardia Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: acne, alopecia, pruritis, urticaria Gastrointestinal Disorders: colitis, flatulence, nausea, pancreatitis, rectal polyp, vomiting Nervous System Disorders: dizziness Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: pharyngolaryngeal pain General Disorders and Administrative Site Disorders: asthenia, pyrexia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: ear pain 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported above in clinical trials involving LIALDA, the adverse reactions listed below have been identified during post-approval use of LIALDA and other mesalamine-containing products. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: lupus-like syndrome, drug fever Cardiac Disorders: pericarditis, pericardial effusion, myocarditis Gastrointestinal: pancreatitis, cholecystitis, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, perforated peptic ulcer Hepatic: jaundice, cholestatic jaundice, hepatitis, liver necrosis, liver failure, Kawasaki-like syndrome including changes in liver enzymes Hematologic: agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia Immune System Disorders: anaphylactic reaction, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: myalgia Neurological/Psychiatric: peripheral neuropathy, Guillain-Barre syndrome, transverse myelitis Renal Disorders: interstitial nephritis Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: hypersensitivity pneumonitis (including interstitial pneumonitis, allergic alveolitis, eosinophilic pneumonitis) Skin: psoriasis, pyoderma gangrenosum, erythema nodosum Urogenital: reversible oligospermia"$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most serious adverse reactions seen in Lialda clinical trials or with other products that contain or are metabolized to mesalamine are: Renal impairment, including renal failure [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Mesalamine-induced acute intolerance syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Hypersensitivity reactions [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hepatic impairment, including hepatic failure [See Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] The most common adverse reactions (incidence >= 2%) are ulcerative colitis, headache, flatulence, liver function test abnormality, and abdominal pain. ( 6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Shire US Inc. at 1-800-828-2088 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. LIALDA has been evaluated in 1368 ulcerative colitis patients in controlled and open-label trials. Induction of Remission In two 8-week placebo-controlled clinical trials involving 535 ulcerative colitis patients, 356 received 2.4 g/day or 4.8 g/day LIALDA tablets and 179 received placebo. The most frequent adverse reaction leading to discontinuation from LIALDA therapy was exacerbation of ulcerative colitis (0.8%). Pancreatitis occurred in less than 1% of patients during clinical trials and resulted in discontinuation of therapy with LIALDA in patients experiencing this event. Adverse reactions occurring in LIALDA or placebo groups at a frequency of at least 1% in two 8-week, double blind, placebo-controlled trials are listed in Table 1. The most common adverse reactions with LIALDA 2.4 g/day and 4.8 g/day were headache (5.6% and 3.4%, respectively) and flatulence (4% and 2.8%, respectively). Table 1: Adverse Reactions in Two Eight-Week Placebo-Controlled Trials Experienced by at Least 1% of the LIALDA Group and at a Rate Greater than Placeboa Adverse Reaction LIALDA 2.4 g/day (n = 177) LIALDA 4.8 g/day (n = 179) Placebo (n = 179) Headache 10 (5.6%) 6 (3.4%) 1 (0.6%) Flatulence 7 (4%) 5 (2.8%) 5 (2.8%) Liver Function Test Abnormal 1 (0.6%) 4 (2.2%) 2 (1.1%) Alopecia 0 2 (1.1%) 0 Pruritus 1 (0.6%) 2 (1.1%) 2 (1.1%) a: Adverse reactions for which the placebo rate equalled or exceeded the rate for at least one of the LIALDA treatment groups were abdominal pain, dizziness, dyspepsia, and nausea. The following adverse reactions, presented by body system, were reported infrequently (less than 1%) by LIALDA-treated ulcerative colitis patients in the two controlled trials. Cardiac Disorder: tachycardia Vascular Disorders: hypertension, hypotension Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: acne, prurigo, rash, urticaria Gastrointestinal Disorders: abdominal distention, colitis, diarrhea, pancreatitis, rectal polyp, vomiting Investigations: decreased platelet count Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: arthralgia, back pain Nervous System Disorders: somnolence, tremor Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: pharyngolaryngeal pain General Disorders and Administrative Site Disorders: asthenia, face edema, fatigue, pyrexia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: ear pain Maintenance of Remission of Ulcerative Colitis The dose evaluated in three studies of LIALDA given for the maintenance of remission in patients with ulcerative colitis was 1.2 g twice daily or 2.4 g/once daily. One of these studies was a 6-month double-blind comparator study while two were 12- to 14-month open-label studies. The most common adverse reactions with LIALDA in the maintenance arms of long-term trials were colitis ulcerative (5.8%), headache (2.9%), liver function test abnormal (2.3%), and abdominal pain (2.2%). Of the 1082 subjects in the all maintenance studies pooled, 1.9% had severe adverse reactions. The most common severe adverse reactions were gastrointestinal disorders; these were mainly symptoms associated with ulcerative colitis. Table 2: Adverse Reactions in Three Maintenance Trials Experienced by at Least 1% of the LIALDA Group (maintenance phases of trials) All LIALDA (n=1082) Adverse Reaction n % Colitis ulcerative 63 (5.8%) Headache 31 (2.9%) Liver function test abnormal 25 (2.3%) Abdominal pain 24 (2.2%) Diarrhea 18 (1.7%) Abdominal distension 14 (1.3%) Abdominal pain upper 13 (1.2%) Dyspepsia 13 (1.2%) Back pain 13 (1.2%) Rash 13 (1.2%) Arthralgia 12 (1.1%) Fatigue 11 (1.0%) Hypertension 10 (1.0%) The following adverse reactions, presented by body system, were reported infrequently (less than 1%) by LIALDA-treated ulcerative colitis patients in the three long-term maintenance trials (maintenance phases of these trials): Cardiac Disorder: tachycardia Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: acne, alopecia, pruritis, urticaria Gastrointestinal Disorders: colitis, flatulence, nausea, pancreatitis, rectal polyp, vomiting Nervous System Disorders: dizziness Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: pharyngolaryngeal pain General Disorders and Administrative Site Disorders: asthenia, pyrexia Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: ear pain 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to the adverse reactions reported above in clinical trials involving LIALDA, the adverse reactions listed below have been identified during post-approval use of LIALDA and other mesalamine-containing products. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: lupus-like syndrome, drug fever Cardiac Disorders: pericarditis, pericardial effusion, myocarditis Gastrointestinal: pancreatitis, cholecystitis, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, perforated peptic ulcer Hepatic: jaundice, cholestatic jaundice, hepatitis, liver necrosis, liver failure, Kawasaki-like syndrome including changes in liver enzymes Hematologic: agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia Immune System Disorders: anaphylactic reaction, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: myalgia Neurological/Psychiatric: peripheral neuropathy, Guillain-Barre syndrome, transverse myelitis Renal Disorders: interstitial nephritis Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: hypersensitivity pneumonitis (including interstitial pneumonitis, allergic alveolitis, eosinophilic pneumonitis) Skin: psoriasis, pyoderma gangrenosum, erythema nodosum Urogenital: reversible oligospermia"$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Based on in vitro studies, APRISO is not expected to inhibit the metabolism of drugs that are substrates of CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or CYP3A4. Do not co-administer with antacids (7.1) 7.1 Antacids Because the dissolution of the coating of the granules in APRISO capsules depends on pH, APRISO capsules should not be co-administered with antacids."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nephrotoxic Agents including NSAIDs: Increased risk of nephrotoxicity; monitor for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions. (7.1) Azathioprine or 6-Mercaptopurine: Increased risk of blood disorders; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts (7.2) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity. Monitor patients taking nephrotoxic drugs for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions. [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )]. 7.2 Azathioprine or 6- M ercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine may increase the risk for blood disorders. If concomitant use of Asacol and azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine cannot be avoided, monitor blood tests, including complete blood cell counts and platelet counts."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Nephrotoxic A gents including NSAIDs: Increased risk of nephrotoxicity; monitor for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions. (7.1) Azathioprine or 6- M ercaptopurine : Increased risk of blood disorders; monitor complete blood cell counts and platelet counts (7.2) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity. Monitor patients taking nephrotoxic drugs for changes in renal function and mesalamine-related adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ]. 7.2 Azathioprine or 6- M ercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine may increase the risk for blood disorders. If concomitant use of DELZICOL and azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine cannot be avoided, monitor blood tests, including complete blood cell counts and platelet counts."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been performed using Asacol HD with other drugs. However, the following interactions between mesalamine-containing products and other drugs have been reported. Nephrotoxic A g ents including NSAIDs: Renal reactions have been reported (7.1) Azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine: Blood disorders have been reported (7.2) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including nonsteroidal anti- inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of renal reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 ) ] . 7.2 A z athioprine or 6-mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine may increase the risk for blood disorders."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been performed using DELZICOL with other drugs. However, the following interactions between mesalamine-containing products and other drugs have been reported. Nephrotoxic agents including NSAIDs: Renal reactions have been reported ( ) 7.1 Azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine: Blood disorders have been reported ( ) 7.2 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of renal reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions ( )]. 5.1 7.2 Azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine may increase the risk for blood disorders."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been performed using DELZICOL with other drugs. However, the following interactions between mesalamine-containing products and other drugs have been reported. Nephrotoxic agents including NSAIDs: Renal reactions have been reported (7.1) Azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine: Blood disorders have been reported (7.2) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of renal reactions [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 7.2 Azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine may increase the risk for blood disorders."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No investigations of interaction between CANASA and other drugs have been performed. However, the following interactions between mesalamine medications and other drugs have been reported. Nephrotoxic agents including NSAIDs: renal reactions have been reported. (7.1) Azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine: blood disorders have been reported. (7.2) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of renal reactions. 7.2 Azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine may increase the risk for blood disorders."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No investigations of interaction between LIALDA and other drugs except for certain antibiotics have been performed [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]. However, the following drug-drug interactions have been reported for products containing mesalamine: Nephrotoxic agents including NSAIDs: renal reactions have been reported. ( 7.1) Azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine: blood disorders have been reported. ( 7.2) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of renal reactions. 7.2 Azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine may increase the risk for blood disorders."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No investigations of interaction between LIALDA and other drugs except for certain antibiotics have been performed [see Pharmacokinetics (12.3)]. However, the following drug-drug interactions have been reported for products containing mesalamine: Nephrotoxic agents including NSAIDs: renal reactions have been reported. (7.1) Azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine: blood disorders have been reported. (7.2) 7.1 Nephrotoxic Agents, Including Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs The concurrent use of mesalamine with known nephrotoxic agents, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may increase the risk of renal reactions. 7.2 Azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine The concurrent use of mesalamine with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine may increase the risk for blood disorders."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Asacoltablets have been evaluated in 3685 inflammatory bowel disease patients (most patients with ulcerative colitis) in controlled and open-label studies. Adverse events seen in clinical trials withAsacoltablets have generally been mild and reversible. Adverse events presented in the following sections may occur regardless of length of therapy and similar events have been reported in short- and long-term studies and in the post-marketing setting. In two short-term (6 weeks) placebo-controlled clinical studies involving 245 patients, 155 of whom were randomized toAsacoltablets, five (3.2%) of theAsacolpatients discontinuedAsacol Adverse events occurring inAsacol-treated patients at a frequency of 2% or greater in the two short-term, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials mentioned above are listed inTable 1below. Overall, the incidence of adverse events seen withAsacoltablets was similar to placebo. Table 1 Frequency (%) of Common Adverse Events Reported in Ulcerative Colitis Patients Treated with Asacol Tablets or Placebo in Short-Term (6-Week) Double-Blind Controlled Studies Percent of Patients with Adverse EventsPlaceboAsacol tabletsEvent(n = 87)(n = 152)Headache3635Abdominal pain1418Eructation1516Pain814Nausea1513Pharyngitis911Dizziness88Asthenia157Diarrhea97Back pain57Fever86Rash36Dyspepsia16Rhinitis55Arthralgia35Hypertonia35Vomiting25Constipation15Flatulence73Dysmenorrhea33Chest pain23Chills23Flu syndrome23Peripheral edema23Myalgia13Sweating13Colitis exacerbation03Pruritus03Acne12Increased cough12Malaise12Arthritis02Conjunctivitis02Insomnia02Of these adverse events, only rash showed a consistently higher frequency with increasingAsacoldose in these studies. In a 6-month placebo-controlled maintenance trial involving 264 patients, 177 of whom were randomized toAsacoltablets, six (3.4%) of theAsacol In the 6-month placebo-controlled maintenance trial, the incidence of adverse events seen withAsacoltablets was similar to that seen with placebo. In addition to events listed inTable 1, the following adverse events occurred inAsacol-treated patients at a frequency of 2% or greater in this study: abdominal enlargement, anxiety, bronchitis, ear disorder, ear pain, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, infection, joint disorder, migraine, nervousness, paresthesia, rectal disorder, rectal hemorrhage, sinusitis, stool abnormalities, tenesmus, urinary frequency, vasodilation, and vision abnormalities. In 3342 patients in uncontrolled clinical studies, the following adverse events occurred at a frequency of 5% or greater and appeared to increase in frequency with increasing dose: asthenia, fever, flu syndrome, pain, abdominal pain, back pain, flatulence, gastrointestinal bleeding, arthralgia, and rhinitis. In addition to the adverse events listed above, the following events have been reported in clinical studies, literature reports, and postmarketing use of products which contain (or have been metabolized to) mesalamine. Because many of these events were reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to their seriousness or potential causal connection to mesalamine: Body as a Whole:Neck pain, facial edema, edema, lupus-like syndrome, drug fever (rare). Cardiovascular:Pericarditis (rare), myocarditis (rare). Gastrointestinal:Anorexia, pancreatitis, gastritis, increased appetite, cholecystitis, dry mouth, oral ulcers, perforated peptic ulcer (rare), bloody diarrhea. There have been rare reports of hepatotoxicity including, jaundice, cholestatic jaundice, hepatitis, and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure. Some of these cases were fatal. Asymptomatic elevations of liver enzymes which usually resolve during continued use or with discontinuation of the drug have also been reported. One case of Kawasaki-like syndrome which included changes in liver enzymes was also reported. Hematologic:Agranulocytosis (rare), aplastic anemia (rare), thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, leukopenia, anemia, lymphadenopathy. Musculoskeletal:Gout. Nervous:Depression, somnolence, emotional lability, hyperesthesia, vertigo, confusion, tremor, peripheral neuropathy (rare), transverse myelitis (rare), Guillain-Barrsyndrome (rare). Respiratory/Pulmonary:Eosinophilic pneumonia, interstitial pneumonitis, asthma exacerbation, pleuritis. Skin:Alopecia, psoriasis (rare), pyoderma gangrenosum (rare), dry skin, erythema nodosum, urticaria. Special Senses:Eye pain, taste perversion, blurred vision, tinnitus. Urogenital:Renal Failure (rare), interstitial nephritis, minimal change nephropathy (See alsoRenal subsection in PRECAUTIONS). Dysuria, urinary urgency, hematuria, epididymitis, menorrhagia. Laboratory Abnormalities:Elevated AST (SGOT) or ALT (SGPT), elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated GGT, elevated LDH, elevated bilirubin, elevated serum creatinine and BUN."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Asacol tablets have been evaluated in 3685 inflammatory bowel disease patients (most patients with ulcerative colitis) in controlled and open-label studies. Adverse events seen in clinical trials with Asacol tablets have generally been mild and reversible. Adverse events presented in the following sections may occur regardless of length of therapy and similar events have been reported in short- and long-term studies and in the post-marketing setting. In two short-term (6 weeks) placebo-controlled clinical studies involving 245 patients, 155 of whom were randomized to Asacol tablets, five (3.2%) of the Asacol patients discontinued Asacol therapy because of adverse events as compared to two (2.2%) of the placebo patients. Adverse reactions leading to withdrawal from Asacol tablets included (each in one patient): diarrhea and colitis flare; dizziness, nausea, joint pain, and headache; rash, lethargy and constipation; dry mouth, malaise, lower back discomfort, mild disorientation, mild indigestion and cramping; headache, nausea, aching, vomiting, muscle cramps, a stuffy head, plugged ears, and fever. Adverse events occurring in Asacol-treated patients at a frequency of 2% or greater in the two short-term, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials mentioned above are listed in Table 1 below. Overall, the incidence of adverse events seen with Asacol tablets was similar to placebo. Table 1 Frequency (%) of Common Adverse Events Reported in Ulcerative Colitis Patients Treated with Asacol Tablets or Placebo in Short-Term (6-Week) Double-Blind Controlled Studies Percent of Patients with Adverse Events Placebo Asacol tablets Event (n = 87) (n = 152) Headache 36 35 Abdominal pain 14 18 Eructation 15 16 Pain 8 14 Nausea 15 13 Pharyngitis 9 11 Dizziness 8 8 Asthenia 15 7 Diarrhea 9 7 Back pain 5 7 Fever 8 6 Rash 3 6 Dyspepsia 1 6 Rhinitis 5 5 Arthralgia 3 5 Hypertonia 3 5 Vomiting 2 5 Constipation 1 5 Flatulence 7 3 Dysmenorrhea 3 3 Chest pain 2 3 Chills 2 3 Flu syndrome 2 3 Peripheral edema 2 3 Myalgia 1 3 Sweating 1 3 Colitis exacerbation 0 3 Pruritus 0 3 Acne 1 2 Increased cough 1 2 Malaise 1 2 Arthritis 0 2 Conjunctivitis 0 2 Insomnia 0 2 Of these adverse events, only rash showed a consistently higher frequency with increasing Asacol dose in these studies. In a 6-month placebo-controlled maintenance trial involving 264 patients, 177 of whom were randomized to Asacol tablets, six (3.4%) of the Asacol patients discontinued Asacol therapy because of adverse events, as compared to four (4.6%) of the placebo patients. Adverse reactions leading to withdrawal from Asacol tablets included (each in one patient): anxiety; headache; pruritus; decreased libido; rheumatoid arthritis; and stomatitis and asthenia. In the 6-month placebo-controlled maintenance trial, the incidence of adverse events seen with Asacol tablets was similar to that seen with placebo. In addition to events listed in Table 1, the following adverse events occurred in Asacol-treated patients at a frequency of 2% or greater in this study: abdominal enlargement, anxiety, bronchitis, ear disorder, ear pain, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, infection, joint disorder, migraine, nervousness, paresthesia, rectal disorder, rectal hemorrhage, sinusitis, stool abnormalities, tenesmus, urinary frequency, vasodilation, and vision abnormalities. In 3342 patients in uncontrolled clinical studies, the following adverse events occurred at a frequency of 5% or greater and appeared to increase in frequency with increasing dose: asthenia, fever, flu syndrome, pain, abdominal pain, back pain, flatulence, gastrointestinal bleeding, arthralgia, and rhinitis. In addition to the adverse events listed above, the following events have been reported in clinical studies, literature reports, and postmarketing use of products which contain (or have been metabolized to) mesalamine. Because many of these events were reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to their seriousness or potential causal connection to mesalamine: Body as a Whole: Neck pain, facial edema, edema, lupus-like syndrome, drug fever (rare). Cardiovascular: Pericarditis (rare), myocarditis (rare). Gastrointestinal: Anorexia, pancreatitis, gastritis, increased appetite, cholecystitis, dry mouth, oral ulcers, perforated peptic ulcer (rare), bloody diarrhea. There have been rare reports of hepatotoxicity including, jaundice, cholestatic jaundice, hepatitis, and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure. Some of these cases were fatal. Asymptomatic elevations of liver enzymes which usually resolve during continued use or with discontinuation of the drug have also been reported. One case of Kawasaki-like syndrome which included changes in liver enzymes was also reported. Hematologic: Agranulocytosis (rare), aplastic anemia (rare), thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, leukopenia, anemia, lymphadenopathy. Musculoskeletal: Gout. Nervous: Depression, somnolence, emotional lability, hyperesthesia, vertigo, confusion, tremor, peripheral neuropathy (rare), transverse myelitis (rare), Guillain-Barre syndrome (rare). Respiratory/Pulmonary: Eosinophilic pneumonia, interstitial pneumonitis, asthma exacerbation, pleuritis. Skin: Alopecia, psoriasis (rare), pyoderma gangrenosum (rare), dry skin, erythema nodosum, urticaria. Special Senses: Eye pain, taste perversion, blurred vision, tinnitus. Urogenital: Renal Failure (rare), interstitial nephritis, minimal change nephropathy (See also Renal subsection in PRECAUTIONS). Dysuria, urinary urgency, hematuria, epididymitis, menorrhagia. Laboratory Abnormalities: Elevated AST (SGOT) or ALT (SGPT), elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated GGT, elevated LDH, elevated bilirubin, elevated serum creatinine and BUN."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS: Asacol tablets have been evaluated in 3685 inflammatory bowel disease patients (most patients with ulcerative colitis) in controlled and open-label studies. Adverse events seen in clinical trials with Asacol tablets have generally been mild and reversible. Adverse events presented in the following sections may occur regardless of length of therapy and similar events have been reported in short- and long-term studies and in the post-marketing setting. In two short-term (6 weeks) placebo-controlled clinical studies involving 245 patients, 155 of whom were randomized to Asacol tablets, five (3.2%) of the Asacol patients discontinued Asacol therapy because of adverse events as compared to two (2.2%) of the placebo patients. Adverse reactions leading to withdrawal from Asacol tablets included (each in one patient): diarrhea and colitis flare; dizziness, nausea, joint pain, and headache; rash, lethargy and constipation; dry mouth, malaise, lower back discomfort, mild disorientation, mild indigestion and cramping; headache, nausea, aching, vomiting, muscle cramps, a stuffy head, plugged ears, and fever. Adverse events occurring in Asacol-treated patients at a frequency of 2% or greater in the two short-term, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials mentioned above are listed in Table 1 below. Overall, the incidence of adverse events seen with Asacol tablets was similar to placebo. Table 1 Frequency (%) of Common Adverse Events Reported in Ulcerative Colitis Patients Treated with Asacol Tablets or Placebo in Short-Term (6-Week) Double-Blind Controlled Studies Percent of Patients with Adverse Events Placebo Asacol tablets Event (n = 87) (n = 152) Headache 36 35 Abdominal pain 14 18 Eructation 15 16 Pain 8 14 Nausea 15 13 Pharyngitis 9 11 Dizziness 8 8 Asthenia 15 7 Diarrhea 9 7 Back pain 5 7 Fever 8 6 Rash 3 6 Dyspepsia 1 6 Rhinitis 5 5 Arthralgia 3 5 Hypertonia 3 5 Vomiting 2 5 Constipation 1 5 Flatulence 7 3 Dysmenorrhea 3 3 Chest pain 2 3 Chills 2 3 Flu syndrome 2 3 Peripheral edema 2 3 Myalgia 1 3 Sweating 1 3 Colitis exacerbation 0 3 Pruritus 0 3 Acne 1 2 Increased cough 1 2 Malaise 1 2 Arthritis 0 2 Conjunctivitis 0 2 Insomnia 0 2 Of these adverse events, only rash showed a consistently higher frequency with increasing Asacol dose in these studies. In a 6-month placebo-controlled maintenance trial involving 264 patients, 177 of whom were randomized to Asacol tablets, six (3.4%) of the Asacol patients discontinued Asacol therapy because of adverse events, as compared to four (4.6%) of the placebo patients. Adverse reactions leading to withdrawal from Asacol tablets included (each in one patient): anxiety; headache; pruritus; decreased libido; rheumatoid arthritis; and stomatitis and asthenia. In the 6-month placebo-controlled maintenance trial, the incidence of adverse events seen with Asacol tablets was similar to that seen with placebo. In addition to events listed in Table 1, the following adverse events occurred in Asacol-treated patients at a frequency of 2% or greater in this study: abdominal enlargement, anxiety, bronchitis, ear disorder, ear pain, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, infection, joint disorder, migraine, nervousness, paresthesia, rectal disorder, rectal hemorrhage, sinusitis, stool abnormalities, tenesmus, urinary frequency, vasodilation, and vision abnormalities. In 3342 patients in uncontrolled clinical studies, the following adverse events occurred at a frequency of 5% or greater and appeared to increase in frequency with increasing dose: asthenia, fever, flu syndrome, pain, abdominal pain, back pain, flatulence, gastrointestinal bleeding, arthralgia, and rhinitis. In addition to the adverse events listed above, the following events have been reported in clinical studies, literature reports, and postmarketing use of products which contain (or have been metabolized to) mesalamine. Because many of these events were reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to their seriousness or potential causal connection to mesalamine: Body as a Whole: Neck pain, facial edema, edema, lupus-like syndrome, drug fever (rare). Cardiovascular: Pericarditis (rare), myocarditis (rare). Gastrointestinal: Anorexia, pancreatitis, gastritis, increased appetite, cholecystitis, dry mouth, oral ulcers, perforated peptic ulcer (rare), bloody diarrhea. There have been rare reports of hepatotoxicity including, jaundice, cholestatic jaundice, hepatitis, and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure. Some of these cases were fatal. Asymptomatic elevations of liver enzymes which usually resolve during continued use or with discontinuation of the drug have also been reported. One case of Kawasaki-like syndrome which included changes in liver enzymes was also reported. Hematologic: Agranulocytosis (rare), aplastic anemia (rare), thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, leukopenia, anemia, lymphadenopathy. Musculoskeletal: Gout. Nervous: Depression, somnolence, emotional lability, hyperesthesia, vertigo, confusion, tremor, peripheral neuropathy (rare), transverse myelitis (rare), Guillain-Barre syndrome (rare). Respiratory/Pulmonary: Eosinophilic pneumonia, interstitial pneumonitis, asthma exacerbation, pleuritis. Skin: Alopecia, psoriasis (rare), pyoderma gangrenosum (rare), dry skin, erythema nodosum, urticaria. Special Senses: Eye pain, taste perversion, blurred vision, tinnitus. Urogenital: Renal Failure (rare), interstitial nephritis, minimal change nephropathy (See also Renal subsection in PRECAUTIONS). Dysuria, urinary urgency, hematuria, epididymitis, menorrhagia. Laboratory Abnormalities: Elevated AST (SGOT) or ALT (SGPT), elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated GGT, elevated LDH, elevated bilirubin, elevated serum creatinine and BUN."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Adverse Experience Mesalamine Rectal Suspension Enema is usually well tolerated. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. ADVERSE REACTIONS OCCURING IN MORE THAN 0.1% OF MESALAMINE RECTAL SUSPENSION ENEMA TREATED PATIENTS (COMPARISON TO PLACEBO) Mesalamine Rectal Suspension Enema Placebo N = 815 N = 128 SYMPTOM N % N % Abdominal Pain/Cramps/Discomfort 66 8.10 10 7.81 Headache 53 6.50 16 12.50 Gas/Flatulence 50 6.13 5 3.91 Nausea 47 5.77 12 9.38 Flu 43 5.28 1 0.78 Tired/Weak/Malaise/Fatigue 28 3.44 8 6.25 Fever 26 3.19 0 0.00 Rash/Spots 23 2.82 4 3.12 Cold/Sore Throat 19 2.33 9 7.03 Diarrhea 17 2.09 5 3.91 Leg/Joint Pain 17 2.09 1 0.78 Dizziness 15 1.84 3 2.34 Bloating 12 1.47 2 1.56 Back Pain 11 1.35 1 0.78 Pain on Insertion of Enema Tip 11 1.35 1 0.78 Hemorrhoids 11 1.35 0 0.00 Itching 10 1.23 1 0.78 Rectal Pain 10 1.23 0 0.00 Constipation 8 0.98 4 3.12 Hair Loss 7 0.86 0 0.00 Peripheral Edema 5 0.61 11 8.59 UTI/Urinary Burning 5 0.61 4 3.12 Rectal Pain/Soreness/Burning 5 0.61 3 2.34 Asthenia 1 0.12 4 3.12 Insomnia 1 0.12 3 2.34 In addition, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of products which contain (or are metabolized to) mesalamine in clinical practice; nephrotoxicity, pancreatitis, fibrosing alveolitis and elevated liver enzymes. Cases of pancreatitis and fibrosing alveolitis have been reported as manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease as well. Published case reports and/or spontaneous post marketing surveillance have described rare instances of aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, oligospermia, and infertility in men. Anemia, leukocytosis, and thrombocytosis can be part of the clinical presentation of inflammatory bowel disease. Hair Loss Mild hair loss characterized by \\\\"more hair in the comb\\\\" but no withdrawal from clinical trials has been observed in 7 of 815 mesalamine patients but none of the placebo-treated patients. In the literature there are at least six additional patients with mild hair loss who received either mesalamine of sulfasalazine. Retreatment is not always associated with repeated hair loss."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Adverse Experience Mesalamine Rectal Suspension Enema is usually well tolerated. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. ADVERSE REACTIONS OCCURRING IN MORE THAN 0.1%OF MESALAMINE RECTAL SUSPENSION TREATED PATIENTS (COMPARISON TO PLACEBO) SYMPTOM MESALAMINE N = 815 N % PLACEBO N=128 N % Abdominal Pain/Cramps/Discomfort 66 8.10 10 7.81 Headache 53 6.50 16 12.50 Gas/Flatulence 50 6.13 5 3.91 Nausea 47 5.77 12 9.38 Flu 43 5.28 1 0.78 Tired/Weak/Malaise/Fatigue 28 3.44 8 6.25 Fever 26 3.19 0 0.00 Rash/Spots 23 2.82 4 3.12 Cold/Sore Throat 19 2.33 9 7.03 Diarrhea 17 2.09 5 3.91 Leg/Joint Pain 17 2.09 1 0.78 Dizziness 15 1.84 3 2.34 Bloating 12 1.47 2 1.56 Back Pain 11 1.35 1 0.78 Pain on Insertion of Enema Tip 11 1.35 1 0.78 Hemorrhoids 11 1.35 0 0.00 Itching 10 1.23 1 0.78 Rectal Pain 10 1.23 0 0.00 Constipation 8 0.98 4 3.12 Hair Loss 7 0.86 0 0.00 Peripheral Edema 5 0.61 11 8.59 UTI/Urinary Burning 5 0.61 4 3.12 Rectal Pain/Soreness/Burning 5 0.61 3 2.34 Asthenia 1 0.12 4 3.12 Insomnia 1 0.12 3 2.34 In addition, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of products which contain (or are metabolized to) mesalamine in clinical practice: nephrotoxicity, pancreatitis, fibrosing alveolitis and elevated liver enzymes. Cases of pancreatitis and fibrosing alveolitis have been reported as manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease as well. Published case reports and/or spontaneous post marketing surveillance have described rare instances of aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, oligospermia, and infertility in men. Anemia, leukocytosis, and thrombocytosis can be part of the clinical presentation of inflammatory bowel disease. Hair Loss Mild hair loss characterized by "more hair in the comb" but no withdrawal from clinical trials has been observed in 7 of 815 mesalamine patients but none of the placebo-treated patients. In the literature there are at least six additional patients with mild hair loss who received either mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Retreatment is not always associated with repeated hair loss."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Adverse Experience Mesalamine Rectal Suspension, USP is usually well tolerated. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. ADVERSE REACTIONS OCCURRING IN MORE THAN 0.1 % OF MESALAMINE RECTAL SUSPENSION TREATED PATIENTS (COMPARISON TO PLACEBO) MESALAMINE RECTAL SUSPENSION USP PLACEBO SYMPTOM N=815 N % N=128 N % Abdominal Pain/Cramps/Discomfort 66 8.10 10 7.81 Headache 53 6.50 16 12.50 Gas/Flatulence 50 6.13 5 3.91 Nausea 47 5.77 12 9.38 Flu 43 5.28 1 0.78 Tired/Weak/Malaise/Fatigue 28 3.44 8 6.25 Fever 26 3.19 0 0.00 Rash/Spots 23 2.82 4 3.12 Cold/Sore Throat 19 2.33 9 7.03 Diarrhea 17 2.09 5 3.91 Leg/joint Pain 17 2.09 1 0.78 Dizziness 15 1.84 3 2.34 Bloating 12 1.47 2 1.56 Back Pain 11 1.35 1 0.78 Pain on Insertion of Enema Tip 11 1.35 1 0.78 Hemorrhoids 11 1.35 0 0.00 Itching 10 1.23 1 0.78 Rectal Pain 10 1.23 0 0.00 Constipation 8 0.98 4 3.12 Hair Loss 7 0.86 0 0.00 Peripheral Edema 5 0.61 11 8.59 UTI/Urinary Burning 5 0.61 4 3.12 Rectal Pain/Soreness/Burning 5 0.61 3 2.34 Asthenia 1 0.12 4 3.12 Insomnia 1 0.12 3 2.34 In addition, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of products which contain (or are metabolized to) mesalamine in clinical practice: nephrotoxicity, pancreatitis, fibrosing alveolitis and elevated liver enzymes. Cases of pancreatitis and fibrosing alveolitis have been reported as manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease as well. Published case reports and/or spontaneous post marketing surveillance have described rare instances of aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, oligospermia, and infertility in men. Anemia, leukocytosis and thrombocytosis can be part of the clinical presentation of inflammatory bowel disease. Hair Loss Mild hair loss characterized by \\\\"more hair in the comb\\\\" but no withdrawal from clinical trials has been observed in seven of 815 mesalamine patients but none of the placebo-treated patients. In the literature there are at least six additional patients with mild hair loss who received either mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Retreatment is not always associated with repeated hair loss."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Adverse Experience - Mesalamine Rectal Suspension, USP is usually well tolerated. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. In addition, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of products which contain (or are metabolized to) mesalamine in clinical practice: nephrotoxicity, pancreatitis, fibrosing alveolitis and elevated liver enzymes. Cases of pancreatitis and fibrosing alveolitis have been reported as manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease as well. Published case reports and/or spontaneous post marketing surveillance have described rare instances of aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, oligospermia, and infertility in men. Anemia, leukocytosis and thrombocytosis can be part of the clinical presentation of inflammatory bowel disease. Hair Loss - Mild hair loss characterized by \\\\"more hair in the comb\\\\" but no withdrawal from clinical trials has been observed in seven of 815 mesalamine patients but none of the placebo-treated patients. In the literature there are at least six additional patients with mild hair loss who received either mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Retreatment is not always associated with repeated hair loss. Table 2"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Adverse Experience ROWASA(R) (mesalamine) Rectal Suspension Enema is usually well tolerated. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. ADVERSE REACTIONS OCCURRING IN MORE THAN 0.1% OF ROWASA(R) (MESALAMINE) RECTAL SUSPENSION ENEMA TREATED PATIENTS (COMPARISON TO PLACEBO) SYMPTOM ROWASA(R) N=815 N % PLACEBO N=128 N % Abdominal Pain/Cramps/Discomfort 66 8.10 10 7.81 Headache 53 6.50 16 12.50 Gas/Flatulence 50 6.13 5 3.91 Nausea 47 5.77 12 9.38 Flu 43 5.28 1 0.78 Tired/Weak/Malaise/Fatigue 28 3.44 8 6.25 Fever 26 3.19 0 0.00 Rash/Spots 23 2.82 4 3.12 Cold/Sore Throat 19 2.33 9 7.03 Diarrhea 17 2.09 5 3.91 Leg/Joint Pain 17 2.09 1 0.78 Dizziness 15 1.84 3 2.34 Bloating 12 1.47 2 1.56 Back Pain 11 1.35 1 0.78 Pain on Insertion of Enema Tip 11 1.35 1 0.78 Hemorrhoids 11 1.35 0 0.00 Itching 10 1.23 1 0.78 Rectal Pain 10 1.23 0 0.00 Constipation 8 0.98 4 3.12 Hair Loss 7 0.86 0 0.00 Peripheral Edema 5 0.61 11 8.59 UTI/Urinary Burning 5 0.61 4 3.12 Rectal Pain/Soreness/Burning 5 0.61 3 2.34 Asthenia 1 0.12 4 3.12 Insomnia 1 0.12 3 2.34 In addition, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of products which contain (or are metabolized to) mesalamine in clinical practice: nephrotoxicity, pancreatitis, fibrosing alveolitis and elevated liver enzymes. Cases of pancreatitis and fibrosing alveolitis have been reported as manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease as well. Published case reports and/or spontaneous post marketing surveillance have described rare instances of aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, oligospermia, and infertility in men. Anemia, leukocytosis, and thrombocytosis can be part of the clinical presentation of inflammatory bowel disease. Hair Loss Mild hair loss characterized by \\\\"more hair in the comb\\\\" but no withdrawal from clinical trials has been observed in 7 of 815 mesalamine patients but none of the placebo-treated patients. In the literature there are at least six additional patients with mild hair loss who received either mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Retreatment is not always associated with repeated hair loss."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Adverse Experience **sfROWASA(TM) (mesalamine) Rectal Suspension is usually well tolerated. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. ADVERSE REACTIONS OCCURRING IN MORE THAN O.1% OF **sfROWASA(TM) (MESALAMINE) RECTAL SUSPENSION TREATED PATIENTS (COMPARISON TO PLACEBO) **sfROWASA(TM) PLACEBO N = 815 N = 128 SYMPTOM N % N % Abdominal Pain/Cramps/Discomfort 66 8.10 10 7.81 Headache 53 6.50 16 12.50 Gas/Flatulence 50 6.13 5 3.91 Nausea 47 5.77 12 9.38 Flu 43 5.28 1 0.78 Tired/Weak/Malaise/Fatigue 28 3.44 8 6.25 Fever 26 3.19 0 0.00 Rash/Spots 23 2.82 4 3.12 Cold/Sore Throat 19 2.33 9 7.03 Diarrhea 17 2.09 5 3.91 Leg/Joint Pain 17 2.09 1 0.78 Dizziness 15 1.84 3 2.34 Bloating 12 1.47 2 1.56 Back Pain 11 1.35 1 0.78 Pain on Insertion of Tip 11 1.35 1 0.78 Hemorrhoids 11 1.35 0 0.00 Itching 10 1.23 1 0.78 Rectal Pain 10 1.23 0 0.00 Constipation 8 0.98 4 3.12 Hair Loss 7 0.86 0 0.00 Peripheral Edema 5 0.61 11 8.59 UTI/Urinary Burning 5 0.61 4 3.12 Rectal Pain/Soreness/Burning 5 0.61 3 2.34 Asthenia 1 0.12 4 3.12 Insomnia 1 0.12 3 2.34 In addition, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of products which contain (or are metabolized to) mesalamine in clinical practice: nephrotoxicity, pancreatitis, fibrosing alveolitis and elevated liver enzymes. Cases of pancreatitis and fibrosing alveolitis have been reported as manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease as well. Published case reports and/or spontaneous post marketing surveillance have described rare instances of aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, oligospermia, and infertility in men. Anemia, leukocytosis, and thrombocytosis can be part of the clinical presentation of inflammatory bowel disease. Hair Loss Mild hair loss characterized by \\\\"more hair in the comb\\\\" but no withdrawal from clinical trials has been observed in 7 of 815 mesalamine patients but none of the placebo-treated patients. In the literature there are at least six additional patients with mild hair loss who received either mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Retreatment is not always associated with repeated hair loss."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Adverse ExperienceThe most frequent adverse reactions observed in the double-blind, placebo-controlled trials are summarized in the Table below. ADVERSE REACTIONS OCCURRING IN MORE THAN 1% OF MESALAMINE SUPPOSITORY TREATED PATIENTS (COMPARISON TO PLACEBO) Symptom Mesalamine (n=177) Placebo (n=84) N % N % Dizziness 5 3.0 2 2.4 Rectal Pain 3 1.8 0 0.0 Fever 2 1.2 0 0.0 Rash 2 1.2 0 0.0 Acne 2 1.2 0 0.0 Colitis 2 1.2 0 0.0 In the multicenter, open-label, randomized, parallel group study comparing the CANASA(R) 1000 mg suppository (HS) to that of the CANASA(R) 500 mg suppository (BID), there were no differences between the two treatment groups in the adverse event profile. The most frequent AEs were headache (14.4%), flatulence (5.2%), abdominal pain (5.2%), diarrhea (3.1%), and nausea (3.1%). Three (3) patients had to discontinue medication because of a treatment emergent AE; one of these AEs (headache) was deemed possibly related to study medication. In addition to the events observed in the clinical trials, the following adverse events have been associated with mesalamine containing products: nephrotoxicity, pancreatitis, fibrosing alveolitis and elevated liver enzymes. Cases of pancreatitis and fibrosing alveolitis have been reported as manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease as well. Hair LossMild hair loss characterized by "more hair in the comb" but no withdrawal from clinical trials has been observed in seven of 815 mesalamine patients but none of the placebo-treated patients. In the literature there are at least six additional patients with mild hair loss who received either mesalamine or sulfasalazine. Retreatment is not always associated with repeated hair loss."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS In combined domestic and foreign clinical trials, more than 2100 patients with ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease received Mesalamine therapy. Generally, Mesalamine therapy was well tolerated. The most common events (ie, greater than or equal to 1%) were diarrhea (3.4%), headache (2.0%), nausea (1.8%), abdominal pain (1.7%), dyspepsia (1.6%), vomiting (1.5%), and rash (1.0%). In two domestic placebo-controlled trials involving over 600 ulcerative colitis patients, adverse events were fewer in Mesalamine-treated patients than in the placebo group (Mesalamine 14% vs placebo 18%) and were not dose-related. Events occurring at 1% or more are shown in the table below. Of these, only nausea and vomiting were more frequent in the Mesalamine group. Withdrawal from therapy due to adverse events was more common on placebo than Mesalamine (7% vs 4%). Clinical laboratory measurements showed no significant abnormal trends for any test, including measurement of hematological, liver, and kidney function. The following adverse events, presented by body system, were reported infrequently (ie, less than 1%) during domestic ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease trials. In many cases, the relationship to Mesalamine has not been established. Gastrointestinal: abdominal distention, anorexia, constipation, duodenal ulcer, dysphagia, eructation, esophageal ulcer, fecal incontinence, GGTP increase, GI bleeding, increased alkaline phosphatase, LDH increase, mouth ulcer, oral moniliasis, pancreatitis, rectal bleeding, SGOT increase, SGPT increase, stool abnormalities (color or texture change), thirst Dermatological: acne, alopecia, dry skin, eczema, erythema nodosum, nail disorder, photosensitivity, pruritus, sweating, urticaria Nervous System: depression, dizziness, insomnia, somnolence, paresthesia Cardiovascular: palpitations, pericarditis, vasodilation Other: albuminuria, amenorrhea, amylase increase, arthralgia, asthenia, breast pain, conjunctivitis, ecchymosis, edema, fever, hematuria, hypomenorrhea, Kawasaki-like syndrome, leg cramps, lichen planus, lipase increase, malaise, menorrhagia, metrorrhagia, myalgia, pulmonary infiltrates, thrombocythemia, thrombocytopenia, urinary frequency One week after completion of an 8-week ulcerative colitis study, a 72-year-old male, with no previous history of pulmonary problems, developed dyspnea. The patient was subsequently diagnosed with interstitial pulmonary fibrosis without eosinophilia by one physician and bronchiolitis obliterans with organizing pneumonitis by a second physician. A causal relationship between this event and mesalamine therapy has not been established. Published case reports and/or spontaneous postmarketing surveillance have described infrequent instances of pericarditis, fatal myocarditis, chest pain and T-wave abnormalities, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, pancreatitis, nephrotic syndrome, interstitial nephritis, hepatitis, aplastic anemia, pancytopenia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis, or anemia while receiving mesalamine therapy. Anemia can be a part of the clinical presentation of inflammatory bowel disease. Allergic reactions, which could involve eosinophilia, can be seen in connection with Mesalamine therapy. Postmarketing Reports The following events have been identified during post-approval use of mesalamine in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to a combination of seriousness, frequency of reporting, or potential causal connection to mesalamine: Gastrointestinal: Reports of hepatoxicity, including elevated liver enzymes (SGOT/AST, SGPT/ALT, GGT, LDH, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin), hepatitis, jaundice, cholestatic jaundice, cirrhosis, and possible hepatocellular damage including liver necrosis and liver failure. Some of these cases were fatal. One case of Kawasaki-like syndrome which included hepatic function changes was also reported. Other: Postmarketing reports of pneumonitis, granulocytopenia, systemic lupus erythematosis, acute renal failure, and chronic renal failure have been received in patients taking Mesalamine. Table 1"$$
"Drug Interactions There are no data on interactions between Mesalamine and other drugs."$$
"Drug Interactions There are no data on interactions between PENTASA and other drugs."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no data on interactions between PENTASA and other drugs."$$
"Drug Interactions: There are no known drug interactions."$$
"DRUG INTERACTIONS There are no known drug interactions."$$
"To Report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-866-210-5950 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. ADVERSE REACTIONS Clinical Adverse Experience **sfROWASA(R) (mesalamine) Rectal Suspension is usually well tolerated. Most adverse effects have been mild and transient. ADVERSE REACTIONS OCCURRING IN MORE THAN 0.1% OF **sfROWASA(R) (MESALAMINE) RECTAL SUSPENSION ENEMA TREATED PATIENTS (COMPARISON TO PLACEBO) **sfROWASA(R) N = 815 PLACEBO N = 128 SYMPTOM N % N % Abdominal Pain/Cramps/Discomfort 66 8.10 10 7.81 Headache 53 6.50 16 12.50 Gas/Flatulence 50 6.13 5 3.91 Nausea 47 5.77 12 9.38 Flu 43 5.28 1 0.78 Tired/Weak/Malaise/Fatigue 28 3.44 8 6.25 Fever 26 3.19 0 0.00 Rash/Spots 23 2.82 4 3.12 Cold/Sore Throat 19 2.33 9 7.03 Diarrhea 17 2.09 5 3.91 Leg/Joint Pain 17 2.09 1 0.78 Dizziness 15 1.84 3 2.34 Bloating 12 1.47 2 1.56 Back Pain 11 1.35 1 0.78 Pain on Insertion of Enema Tip 11 1.35 1 0.78 Hemorrhoids 11 1.35 0 0.00 Itching 10 1.23 1 0.78 Rectal Pain 10 1.23 0 0.00 Constipation 8 0.98 4 3.12 Hair Loss 7 0.86 0 0.00 Peripheral Edema 5 0.61 11 8.59 UTI/Urinary Burning 5 0.61 4 3.12 Rectal Pain/Soreness/Burning 5 0.61 3 2.34 Asthenia 1 0.12 4 3.12 Insomnia 1 0.12 3 2.34 In addition, the following adverse events have been identified during post-approval use of products which contain (or are metabolized to) mesalamine in clinical practice; nephrotoxicity, pancreatitis, fibrosing alveolitis and elevated liver enzymes. Cases of pancreatitis and fibrosing alveolitis have been reported as manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease as well. Published case reports and/or spontaneous post marketing surveillance have described rare instances of aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, oligospermia, and infertility in men. Anemia, leukocytosis, and thrombocytosis can be part of the clinical presentation of inflammatory bowel disease. Hair Loss Mild hair loss characterized by \\\\"more hair in the comb\\\\" but no withdrawal from clinical trials has been observed in 7 of 815 mesalamine patients but none of the placebo-treated patients. In the literature there are at least six additional patients with mild hair loss who received either mesalamine of sulfasalazine. Retreatment is not always associated with repeated hair loss."$$
