"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction is hypertension associated in several cases with seizure and/or headache. Hypotension has also been reported. Abdominal pain (caused by uterine contractions), nausea and vomiting have occurred occasionally. Rarely observed reactions have included: acute myocardial infarction, transient chest pains, vasoconstriction, vasospasm, coronary arterial spasm, bradycardia, tachycardia, dyspnea, hematuria, thrombophlebitis, water intoxication, hallucinations, leg cramps, dizziness, tinnitus, nasal congestion, diarrhea, diaphoresis, palpitation, rash, and foul taste.1 There have been rare isolated reports of anaphylaxis, without a proven causal relationship to the drug product. Postmarketing Experience The following adverse drug reactions have been derived from post-marketing experience with Methergine via spontaneous case reports. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency which is therefore categorized as not known. Nervous system disorders Cerebrovascular accident, paraesthesia Cardiac disorders Ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, angina pectoris, atrioventricular block"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction is hypertension associated in several cases with seizure and/or headache. Hypotension has also been reported. Abdominal pain (caused by uterine contractions), nausea and vomiting have occurred occasionally. Rarely observed reactions have included: acute myocardial infarction, transient chest pains, vasoconstriction, vasospasm, coronary arterial spasm, bradycardia, tachycardia, dyspnea, hematuria, thrombophlebitis, water intoxication, hallucinations, leg cramps, dizziness, tinnitus, nasal congestion, diarrhea, diaphoresis, palpitation, rash, and foul taste. There have been rare isolated reports of anaphylaxis, without a proven causal relationship to the drug product. Postmarketing Experience The following adverse drug reactions have been derived from post-marketing experience with Methergine via spontaneous case reports. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency which is therefore categorized as not known. Nervous system disorders Cerebrovascular accident, paraesthesia Cardiac disorders Ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, angina pectoris, atrioventricular block"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction is hypertension associated in several cases with seizure and/or headache. Hypotension has also been reported. Abdominal pain (caused by uterine contractions), nausea and vomiting have occurred occasionally. Rarely observed reactions have included: acute myocardial infarction, transient chest pains, vasoconstriction, vasospasm, coronary arterial spasm, bradycardia, tachycardia, dyspnea, hematuria, thrombophlebitis, water intoxication, hallucinations, leg cramps, dizziness, tinnitus, nasal congestion, diarrhea, diaphoresis, palpitation, rash and foul taste. There have been rare isolated reports of anaphylaxis, without a proven causal relationship to the drug product. Postmarketing Experience The following adverse drug reactions have been derived from post-marketing experience with Methylergonovine Maleate Injection via spontaneous case reports. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency, which is therefore categorized as not known. Nervous system disorders Cerebrovascular accident, paraesthesia Cardiac disorders Ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, angina pectoris, atrioventricular block"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction is hypertension associated in several cases with seizure and/or headache. Hypotension has also been reported. Abdominal pain (caused by uterine contractions), nausea and vomiting have occurred occasionally. Rarely observed reactions have included: acute myocardial infarction, transient chest pains, vasoconstriction, vasospasm, coronary arterial spasm, bradycardia, tachycardia, dyspnea, hematuria, thrombophlebitis, water intoxication, hallucinations, leg cramps, dizziness, tinnitus, nasal congestion, diarrhea, diaphoresis, palpitation, rash, and foul taste. There have been rare isolated reports of anaphylaxis, without a proven causal relationship to the drug product. Postmarketing Experience The following adverse drug reactions have been derived from post-marketing experience with Methylergonovine Maleate Tablets, USP via spontaneous case reports. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency which is therefore categorized as not known. Nervous system disorders Cerebrovascular accident, paraesthesia Cardiac disorders Ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, angina pectoris, atrioventricular block"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction is hypertension associated in several cases with seizure and/or headache. Hypotension has also been reported. Abdominal pain (caused by uterine contractions), nausea and vomiting have occurred occasionally. Rarely observed reactions have included: acute myocardial infarction, transient chest pains, vasoconstriction, vasospasm, coronary arterial spasm, bradycardia, tachycardia, dyspnea, hematuria, thrombophlebitis, water intoxication, hallucinations, leg cramps, dizziness, tinnitus, nasal congestion, diarrhea, diaphoresis, palpitation, rash, and foul taste. There have been rare isolated reports of anaphylaxis, without a proven causal relationship to the drug product. Postmarketing Experience The following adverse drug reactions have been derived from post-marketing experience with methylergonovine maleate via spontaneous case reports. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency which is therefore categorized as not known. Nervous system disorders Cerebrovascular accident, paraesthesia Cardiac disorders Ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, angina pectoris, atrioventricular block"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction is hypertension associated in several cases with seizure and/or headache. Hypotension has also been reported. Abdominal pain (caused by uterine contractions), nausea and vomiting have occurred occasionally. Rarely observed reactions have included: acute myocardial infarction, transient chest pains, vasoconstriction, vasospasm, coronary arterial spasm, bradycardia, tackycardia, dyspnea, hematuria, thrombophlebitis, water intoxication, hallucinations, leg cramps, dizziness, tinnitus, nasal congestion, diarrhea, diaphoresis, palpitation, rash and foul taste. There have been rare isolated reports of anaphylaxis, without a proven casual relationship to the drug product. Postmarketing Experience The following adverse drug reactions have been derived from post-marketing experience with Methergine via spontaneous case reports. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency which is therefore categorized as not known. Nervous system disorders Cerebrovascular accident, paraesthesia Cardiac disorders Ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, angina pectoris, atrioventricular block"$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction is hypertension associated in several cases with seizure and/or headache. Hypotension has also been reported. Nausea and vomiting have occurred occasionally. Rarely observed reactions have included: acute myocardial infarction, transient chest pains, arterial spasm (coronary and peripheral), bradycardia, tachycardia, dyspnea, hematuria, thrombophlebitis, water intoxication, hallucinations, leg cramps, dizziness, tinnitus, nasal congestion, diarrhea, diaphoresis, palpitation, rash, and foul taste. 1 There have been rare isolated reports of anaphylaxis, without a proven causal relationship to the drug product."$$
"ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reaction is hypertension associated in several cases with seizure and/or headache. Hypotension has also been reported. Nausea and vomiting have occurred occasionally. Rarely observed reactions have included: acute myocardial infarction, transient chest pains, arterial spasm (coronary and peripheral), bradycardia, tachycardia, dyspnea, hematuria, thrombophlebitis, water intoxication, hallucinations, leg cramps, dizziness, tinnitus, nasal congestion, diarrhea, diaphoresis, palpitation, rash, and foul taste.1 There have been rare isolated reports of anaphylaxis, without a proven causal relationship to the drug product."$$
"Drug Interactions"$$
"Drug Interactions CYP 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the coadministration of certain ergot alkaloid drugs (e.g., dihydroergotamine and ergotamine) and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors, resulting in vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Although there have been no reports of such interactions of methylergonovine alone, potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should not be coadministered with methylergonovine. Examples of some of the more potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors include macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, troleandomycin, clarithromycin), HIV protease or reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, delavirdine) or azole antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole). Less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution. Less potent inhibitors include saquinavir, nefazodone, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, zileuton, and clotrimazole. These lists are not exhaustive, and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with methylergonovine. No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known. Caution should be exercised when methylergonovine maleate is used concurrently with other vasoconstrictors or ergot alkaloids."$$
"Drug Interactions CYP 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the coadministration of certain ergot alkaloid drugs (e.g., dihydroergotamine and ergotamine) and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors, resulting in vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Although there have been no reports of such interactions with methylergonovine alone, potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should not be coadministered with methylergonovine. Examples of some of the more potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors include macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, troleandomycin, clarithromycin), HIV protease or reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, delavirdine) or azole antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole). Less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution. Less potent inhibitors include saquinavir, nefazodone, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, zileuton, and clotrimazole. These lists are not exhaustive, and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with methylergonovine. CYP3A4 inducers Drugs (e.g. nevirapine, rifampicin) that are strong inducers of CYP3A4 are likely to decrease the pharmacological action of Methergine. Beta-blockers Caution should be exercised when Methergine is used concurrently with beta-blockers. Concomitant administration with beta-blockers may enhance the vasoconstrictive action of ergot alkaloids. Anesthetics Anesthetics like halothan and methoxyfluran may reduce the oxytocic potency of Methergine. Glyceryl trinitrate and other antianginal drugs Methylergonovine maleate produces vasoconstriction and can be expected to reduce the effect of glyceryl trinitrate and other antianginal drugs. No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known. Caution should be exercised when Methergine (methylergonovine maleate) is used concurrently with other vasoconstrictors, ergot alkaloids, or prostaglandins."$$
"Drug Interactions CYP 3A4 Inhibitors (e.g. , Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the coadministration of certain ergot alkaloid drugs (e.g., dihydroergotamine and ergotamine) and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors, resulting in vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Although there have been no reports of such interactions with methylergonovine alone, potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should not be coadministered with methylergonovine. Examples of some of the more potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors include macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, troleandomycin, clarithromycin), HIV protease or reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, delavirdine) or azole antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole). Less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution. Less potent inhibitors include saquinavir, nefazodone, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, zileuton, and clotrimazole. These lists are not exhaustive, and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with methylergonovine. CYP3A4 inducers Drugs (e.g. nevirapine, rifampicin) that are strong inducers of CYP3A4 are likely to decrease the pharmacological action of Methergine. Beta-blockers Caution should be exercised when Methergine is used concurrently with beta-blockers. Concomitant administration with beta-blockers may enhance the vasoconstrictive action of ergot alkaloids. Anesthetics Anesthetics like halothan and methoxyfluran may reduce the oxytocic potency of Methergine. Glyceryl trinitrate and other antianginal drugs Methylergonovine maleate produces vasoconstriction and can be expected to reduce the effect of glyceryl trinitrate and other antianginal drugs. No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known. Caution should be exercised when Methergine (methylergonovine maleate) is used concurrently with other vasoconstrictors, ergot alkaloids, or prostaglandins."$$
"Drug Interactions CYP 3A4 Inhibitors (e.g. Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the coadministration of certain ergot alkaloid drugs (e.g. dihydroergotamine and ergotamine) and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors, resulting in vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Although there have been no reports of such interactions with methylergonovine alone, potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should not be coadministered with methylergonovine. Examples of some of the more potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors include macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, troleandomycin, clarithromycin), HIV protease or reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, delavirdine) or azole antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole). Less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution. Less potent inhibitors include saquinavir, nefazodone, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, zileuton, and clotrimazole. These lists are not exhaustive, and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with methylergonovine. CYP3A4 inducers Drugs (e.g. nevirapine, rifampicin) that are strong inducers of CYP3A4 are likely to decrease the pharmacological action of Methergine. Beta-blockers Caution should be exercised when Methergine is used concurrently with beta-blockers. Concomitant administration with beta-blockers may enhance the vasoconstrictive action of ergot alkaloids. Anesthetics Anesthetics like halothan and methoxyfluran may reduce the oxytocic potency of Methergine. Glyceryl trinitrate and other antianginal drugs Methylergonovine maleate produces vasoconstriction and can be expected to reduce the effect of glyceryl trinitrate and other antianginal drugs. No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known. Caution should be exercised when methylergonovine maleate is used concurrently with other vasoconstrictors, ergot alkaloids, or prostaglandins."$$
"Drug Interactions CYP3A4 Inhibitors (e.g., Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the coadministration of certain ergot alkaloid drugs (e.g., dihydroergotamine and ergotamine) and potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, resulting in vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Although there have been no reports of such interactions with methylergonovine alone, potent CYP3A4 inhibitors should not be coadministered with methylergonovine. Examples of some of the more potent CYP3A4 inhibitors include macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, troleandomycin, clarithromycin), HIV protease or reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, delavirdine) or azole antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole). Less potent CYP3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution. Less potent inhibitors include saquinavir, nefazodone, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, zileuton, and clotrimazole. These lists are not exhaustive, and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with methylergonovine. CYP3A4 inducers Drugs (e.g., nevirapine, rifampicin) that are strong inducers of CYP3A4 are likely to decrease the pharmacological action of methylergonovine maleate. Beta-blockers Caution should be exercised when methylergonovine maleate is used concurrently with beta-blockers. Concomitant administration with beta-blockers may enhance the vasoconstrictive action of ergot alkaloids. Anesthetics Anesthetics like halothane and methoxyflurane may reduce the oxytocic potency of methylergonovine maleate. Glyceryl trinitrate and other antianginal drugs Methylergonovine maleate produces vasoconstriction and can be expected to reduce the effect of glyceryl trinitrate and other antianginal drugs. No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known. Caution should be exercised when methylergonovine maleate is used concurrently with other vasoconstrictors, ergot alkaloids, or prostaglandins."$$
"Drug Interactions CYP 3A4 Inhibitors (e.g. , Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the coadministration of certain ergot alkaloid drugs (e.g., dihydroergotamine and ergotamine) and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors, resulting in vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Although there have been no reports of such interactions with methylergonovine alone, potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should not be coadministered with methylergonovine. Examples of some of the more potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors include macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, troleandomycin, clarithromycin), HIV protease or reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, delavirdine) or azole antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole). Less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution. Less potent inhibitors include saquinavir, nefazodone, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, zileuton, and clotrimazole. These lists are not exhaustive, and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with methylergonovine. No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known. Caution should be exercised when Methergine (R) (methylergonovine maleate) is used concurrently with other vasoconstrictors or ergot alkaloids."$$
"Drug Interactions CYP 3A4 Inhibitors (e.g. , Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the coadministration of certain ergot alkaloid drugs (e.g., dihydroergotamine and ergotamine) and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors, resulting in vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Although there have been no reports of such interactions with methylergonovine alone, potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should not be coadministered with methylergonovine. Examples of some of the more potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors include macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, troleandomycin, clarithromycin), HIV protease or reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, delavirdine) or azole antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole). Less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution. Less potent inhibitors include saquinavir, nefazodone, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, zileuton, and clotrimazole. These lists are not exhaustive, and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with methylergonovine. No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known. Caution should be exercised when Methergine(R) (methylergonovine maleate) is used concurrently with other vasoconstrictors or ergot alkaloids."$$
"Drug Interactions CYP 3A4 Inhibitors (e.g. , Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the coadministration of certain ergot alkaloid drugs (e.g., dihydroergotamine and ergotamine) and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors, resulting in vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Although there have been no reports of such interactions with methylergonovine alone, potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should not be coadministered with methylergonovine. Examples of some of the more potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors include macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, troleandomycin, clarithromycin), HIV protease or reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, delavirdine) or azole antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole). Less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution. Less potent inhibitors include saquinavir, nefazodone, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, zileuton, and clotrimazole. These lists are not exhaustive, and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with methylergonovine. No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known. Caution should be exercised when Methergine(R) (methylergonovine maleate) is used concurrently with other vasoconstrictors or ergot alkaloids"$$
"Drug Interactions CYP 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the coadministration of certain ergot alkaloid drugs (e.g., dihydroergotamine and ergotamine) and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors, resulting in vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Although there have been no reports of such interactions with Methylergonovine alone, potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should not be coadministered with methylergonovine. Examples of some of the more potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors include macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, troleandomycin, clarithromycin), HIV protease or reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, delavirdine) or azole antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole). Less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution. Less potent inhibitors include saquinavir, nefazodone, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, zileuton, and clotrimazole. These lists are not exhaustive, and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with methylergonovine. No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known. Caution should be exercised when Methylergonovine maleate is used concurrently with other vasoconstrictors or ergot alkaloids."$$
"PRECAUTIONS General Caution should be exercised in the presence of sepsis, obliterative vascular disease, hepatic or renal involvement. Also use with caution during the second stage of labor. The necessity for manual removal of a retained placenta should occur only rarely with proper technique and adequate allowance of time for its spontaneous separation. Drug Interactions CYP 3A4 Inhibitors (e.g. , Macrolide Antibiotics and Protease Inhibitors) There have been rare reports of serious adverse events in connection with the coadministration of certain ergot alkaloid drugs (e.g., dihydroergotamine and ergotamine) and potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors, resulting in vasospasm leading to cerebral ischemia and/or ischemia of the extremities. Although there have been no reports of such interactions with methylergonovine alone, potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should not be coadministered with methylergonovine. Examples of some of the more potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors include macrolide antibiotics (e.g., erythromycin, troleandomycin, clarithromycin), HIV protease or reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, indinavir, nelfinavir, delavirdine) or azole antifungals (e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole). Less potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors should be administered with caution. Less potent inhibitors include saquinavir, nefazodone, fluconazole, grapefruit juice, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, zileuton, and clotrimazole. These lists are not exhaustive, and the prescriber should consider the effects on CYP 3A4 of other agents being considered for concomitant use with methylergonovine. No pharmacokinetic interactions involving other cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are known. Caution should be exercised when Methergine(R) (methylergonovine maleate) is used concurrently with other vasoconstrictors or ergot alkaloids Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility No long-term studies have been performed in animals to evaluate carcinogenic potential. The effect of the drug on mutagenesis or fertility has not been determined. Pregnancy Category C. Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with Methergine. It is also not known whether methylergonovine maleate can cause fetal harm or can affect reproductive capacity. Use of Methergine is contraindicated during pregnancy because of its uterotonic effects. (See INDICATIONS AND USAGE.) Labor and Delivery The uterotonic effect of Methergine is utilized after delivery to assist involution and decrease hemorrhage, shortening the third stage of labor. Nursing Mothers Methergine(R) (methylergonovine maleate) may be administered orally for a maximum of 1 week postpartum to control uterine bleeding. Recommended dosage is 1 tablet (0.2 mg) 3 or 4 times daily. At this dosage level a small quantity of drug appears in mothers' milk. Caution should be exercised when Methergine is administered to a nursing woman. Pediatric Use Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients have not been established. Geriatric Use Clinical studies of Methergine did not include sufficient number of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Other reported clinical experience has not identified differences in response between the elderly and younger patients. In general dose selection for an elderly patient should be cautious, usually starting at the low end of the dosing range, reflecting the greater frequency of decreased hepatic, renal, or cardiac function, and of concomitant disease or other drug therapy."$$
