https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Methyclothiazide+AND+Tablet+AND+5+AND+mg&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "METHYCLOTHIAZIDE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Methyclothiazide"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug Interactions Hypokalemia can sensitize or exaggerate the response of the heart to the toxic effects of digitalis (e.g., increased ventricular irritability). Hypokalemia may develop during concomitant use of steroids or ACTH. Insulin requirements in diabetic patients may be increased, decreased, or unchanged. Thiazides may decrease arterial responsiveness to norepinephrine. This diminution is not sufficient to preclude effectiveness of the pressor agent for therapeutic use. Thiazide drugs may increase the responsiveness of tubocurarine. Lithium renal clearance is reduced by thiazides, increasing the risk of lithium toxicity. Thiazides may add to or potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs. Potentiation occurs with ganglionic or peripheral adrenergic blocking drugs."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS Adverse reactions are usually reversible upon reduction of dosage or discontinuation of methyclothiazide tablets. Whenever adverse reactions are moderate or severe, it may be necessary to discontinue the drug. The following adverse reactions have been observed, but there has not been enough systematic collection of data to support an estimate of their frequency. Consequently the reactions are categorized by organ system and are listed in decreasing order of severity and not frequency. Body as a Whole: Headache, cramping, weakness. Cardiovascular System: Orthostatic hypotension (may be potentiated by alcohol, barbiturates, or narcotics). Digestive System: Pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic), sialadenitis, vomiting, diarrhea, nausea, gastric irritation, constipation, anorexia. Hemic and Lymphatic System: Aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, agranulocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia. Hypersensitivity Reactions: Anaphylactic reactions, necrotizing angiitis (vasculitis, cutaneous vasculitis), Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, respiratory distress including pneumonitis and pulmonary edema, fever, purpura, urticaria, rash, photosensitivity. Metabolic and Nutritional Disorders: Hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, electrolyte imbalance (see PRECAUTIONS section), hypercalcemia. Nervous System: Vertigo, dizziness, paresthesias, muscle spasm, restlessness. Special Senses: Transient blurred vision, xanthopsia. Urogenital System: Glycosuria."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
