"5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Central Nervous System (CNS) Toxicity: Plasma concentrations exceeding 20 mcg/mL are associated with a greater incidence of toxicity. (5.2) -Adrenal Insufficiency: Institute steroid replacement as clinically indicated. Measure free cortisol and corticotropin (ACTH) levels to achieve optimal steroid replacement. (5.3) -Embryo-Fetal Toxicity: Can cause fetal harm. Advise women of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception. (5.4, 8.1, 8.3) 5.1 Adrenal Crisis in the Setting of Shock or Severe Trauma In patients taking LYSODREN, adrenal crisis occurs in the setting of shock or severe trauma and response to shock is impaired. Administer hydrocortisone, monitor for escalating signs of shock, and discontinue LYSODREN until recovery [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. 5.2 CNS Toxicity CNS toxicity, including sedation, lethargy, and vertigo, occurs with LYSODREN treatment. Mitotane plasma concentrations exceeding 20 mcg/mL are associated with a greater incidence of toxicity. 5.3 Adrenal Insufficiency Treatment with LYSODREN can cause adrenal insufficiency. Institute steroid replacement as clinically indicated. Measure free cortisol and corticotropin (ACTH) levels to achieve optimal steroid replacement. 5.4 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity LYSODREN can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Abnormal pregnancy outcomes, such as preterm births and early pregnancy loss, can occur in patients exposed to mitotane during pregnancy. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with LYSODREN and after discontinuation of treatment for as long as mitotane plasma levels are detectable [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3)]."$$
"6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label: -Adrenal Crisis in the Setting of Shock or Severe Trauma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -CNS Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Adrenal Insufficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] The following adverse reactions associated with the use of LYSODREN were identified in clinical trials or postmarketing reports. Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to estimate their frequency reliably or to establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Common adverse reactions occurring with LYSODREN treatment include: -Anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea (80%) -Depression, dizziness, or vertigo (15%-40%) -Rash (15%) -Neutropenia -Growth retardation, hypothyroidism -Confusion, headache, ataxia, mental impairment, weakness, dysarthria -Maculopathy -Hepatitis, elevation of liver enzymes -Gynecomastia -Hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia Less common adverse reactions include: visual blurring, diplopia, lens opacity, retinopathy, prolonged bleeding time, hematuria, hemorrhagic cystitis, albuminuria, hypertension, orthostatic hypotension, flushing, generalized aching, and fever. Common adverse reactions (>=15%) include: anorexia, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea; depression, dizziness or vertigo; and rash. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch."$$
"7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Adjust dosage of concomitant coumarin-type anticoagulants as needed. (7.2) 7.1 CYP3A4 Substrates Mitotane is a strong inducer of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Monitor patients for a change in dosage requirements for the concomitant drug when administering LYSODREN to patients receiving drugs that are substrates of CYP3A4. 7.2 Warfarin When administering coumarin-type anticoagulants to patients receiving LYSODREN, monitor coagulation tests and adjust the anticoagulant dose as needed."$$
