https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Paliperidone&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 11
        "generic_name": [
          "PALIPERIDONE"
        "brand_name": [
          "INVEGA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Centrally-acting drugs: Due to CNS effects, use caution in combination. Avoid alcohol. (7.1) Drugs that may cause orthostatic hypotension: An additive effect may be observed when co-administered with INVEGA(R). (7.1) Strong CYP3A4/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducers: It may be necessary to increase the dose of INVEGA(R) when a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine) is co-administered. Conversely, on discontinuation of the strong inducer, it may be necessary to decrease the dose of INVEGA(R). (7.2) Co-administration of divalproex sodium increased Cmax and AUC of paliperidone by approximately 50%. Adjust dose of INVEGA(R) if necessary based on clinical assessment. (7.2) 7.1 Potential for INVEGA(R) to Affect Other Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of paliperidone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)], INVEGA(R) should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Paliperidone may antagonize the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension, an additive effect may be observed when INVEGA(R) is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes. In vitro studies in human liver microsomes showed that paliperidone does not substantially inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5. Therefore, paliperidone is not expected to inhibit clearance of drugs that are metabolized by these metabolic pathways in a clinically relevant manner. Paliperidone is also not expected to have enzyme inducing properties. Paliperidone is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) at high concentrations. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and INVEGA(R) is unlikely. In a drug interaction study, co-administration of INVEGA(R) (12 mg once daily for 5 days) with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (500 mg to 2000 mg once daily) did not affect the steady-state pharmacokinetics (AUC24h and Cmax,ss) of valproate in 13 patients stabilized on valproate. In a clinical study, subjects on stable doses of valproate had comparable valproate average plasma concentrations when INVEGA(R) 3-15 mg/day was added to their existing valproate treatment. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect INVEGA(R) Paliperidone is not a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, so that an interaction with inhibitors or inducers of these isozymes is unlikely. While in vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone metabolism, in vivo studies do not show decreased elimination by these isozymes and they contribute to only a small fraction of total body clearance. In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate. Co-administration of INVEGA(R) 6 mg once daily with carbamazepine, a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp), at 200 mg twice daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone. A minor decrease in the amount of drug excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of INVEGA(R) should be re-evaluated and increased if necessary. Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of INVEGA(R) should be re-evaluated and decreased if necessary. Paliperidone is metabolized to a limited extent by CYP2D6 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In an interaction study in healthy subjects in which a single 3 mg dose of INVEGA(R) was administered concomitantly with 20 mg per day of paroxetine (a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor), paliperidone exposures were on average 16% (90% CI: 4, 30) higher in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers. Higher doses of paroxetine have not been studied. The clinical relevance is unknown. Co-administration of a single dose of INVEGA(R) 12 mg with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. Dosage reduction for INVEGA(R) should be considered when INVEGA(R) is co-administered with valproate after clinical assessment. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and INVEGA(R) is unlikely."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence >= 5% and at least twice that for placebo) were (6) Adults with schizophrenia: extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. Adolescents with schizophrenia: somnolence, akathisia, tremor, dystonia, cogwheel rigidity, anxiety, weight increased, and tachycardia. Adults with schizoaffective disorder: extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-JANSSEN (1-800-526-7736) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Overall Adverse Reaction Profile The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cerebrovascular adverse reactions, including stroke, in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Tardive dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Metabolic changes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hyperprolactinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Potential for gastrointestinal obstruction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Orthostatic hypotension and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Potential for cognitive and motor impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Dysphagia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Suicide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)] Disruption of body temperature regulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)] Antiemetic effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18)] Increased sensitivity in patients with Parkinson's disease or those with dementia with Lewy bodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] Diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) and at least twice the placebo rate in any of the dose groups) were extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult patients with schizoaffective disorder (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) and at least twice the placebo rate) were extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (causing discontinuation in 2% of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects) were nervous system disorders. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder were gastrointestinal disorders, which resulted in discontinuation in 1% of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects. [See Adverse Reactions (6.4)]. The safety of INVEGA(R) was evaluated in 1205 adult subjects with schizophrenia who participated in three placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials, of whom 850 subjects received INVEGA(R) at fixed doses ranging from 3 mg to 12 mg once daily. The information presented in this section was derived from pooled data from these three trials. Additional safety information from the placebo-controlled phase of the long-term maintenance study, in which subjects received INVEGA(R) at daily doses within the range of 3 mg to 15 mg (n=104), is also included. The safety of INVEGA(R) was evaluated in 150 adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia who received INVEGA(R) in the dose range of 1.5 mg to 12 mg/day in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The safety of INVEGA(R) was also evaluated in 622 adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder who participated in two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials. In one of these trials, 206 subjects were assigned to one of two dose levels of INVEGA(R): 6 mg with the option to reduce to 3 mg (n = 108) or 12 mg with the option to reduce to 9 mg (n = 98) once daily. In the other study, 214 subjects received flexible doses of INVEGA(R) (3-12 mg once daily). Both studies included subjects who received INVEGA(R) either as monotherapy or as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Adverse events during exposure to study treatment were obtained by general inquiry and recorded by clinical investigators using their own terminology. Consequently, to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse events, events were grouped in standardized categories using MedDRA terminology. Throughout this section, adverse reactions are reported. Adverse reactions are adverse events that were considered to be reasonably associated with the use of INVEGA(R) (adverse drug reactions) based on the comprehensive assessment of the available adverse event information. A causal association for INVEGA(R) often cannot be reliably established in individual cases. Further, because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. 6.2 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizophrenia in Adults and Adolescents Adult Patients with Schizophrenia Table 4 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in INVEGA(R)-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 4. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of INVEGA(R)-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia in Three Short-Term, Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the INVEGA(R) dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from three studies; one study included once-daily INVEGA(R) doses of 3 mg and 9 mg, the second study included 6 mg, 9 mg, and 12 mg, and the third study included 6 mg and 12 mg [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, oculogyration, parkinsonism, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Adverse reactions for which the INVEGA(R) incidence was equal to or less than placebo are not listed in the table, but included the following: vomiting. Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 37 48 47 53 59 Cardiac disorders Atrioventricular block first degree 1 2 0 2 1 Bundle branch block 2 3 1 3 <1 Sinus arrhythmia 0 2 1 1 <1 Tachycardia 7 14 12 12 14 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal pain upper 1 1 3 2 2 Dry mouth 1 2 3 1 3 Salivary hypersecretion <1 0 <1 1 4 General disorders Asthenia 1 2 <1 2 2 Fatigue 1 2 1 2 2 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 3 8 10 Dizziness 4 6 5 4 5 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 10 7 20 18 Headache 12 11 12 14 14 Somnolence 7 6 9 10 11 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotension 1 2 1 2 4 Adolescent Patients with Schizophrenia Table 5 lists the adverse reactions reported in a fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in INVEGA(R)-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 5. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of INVEGA(R)-Treated Adolescent Subjects with Schizophrenia in a Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the INVEGA(R) dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms oculogyric crisis, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, nuchal rigidity, torticollis, trismus, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle contractions involuntary, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, tremor, and restlessness. Somnolence includes the terms somnolence, sedation, and hypersomnia. Insomnia includes the terms insomnia and initial insomnia. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Hypertension includes the terms hypertension and blood pressure increased. Gynecomastia includes the terms gynecomastia and breast swelling. Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 1.5 mg once daily 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 43 37 50 58 74 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 0 0 6 9 6 Eye disorders Vision blurred 0 0 0 0 3 Gastrointestinal disorders Dry mouth 2 0 0 0 3 Salivary hypersecretion 0 2 6 2 0 Swollen tongue 0 0 0 0 3 Vomiting 10 0 6 11 3 General disorders Asthenia 0 0 0 2 3 Fatigue 0 4 0 2 3 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 2 4 0 4 0 Investigations Weight increased 0 7 6 2 3 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 0 4 6 11 17 Dizziness 0 2 6 2 3 Extrapyramidal symptoms 0 4 19 18 23 Headache 4 9 6 4 14 Lethargy 0 0 0 0 3 Somnolence 4 9 13 20 26 Tongue paralysis 0 0 0 0 3 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 4 0 0 2 9 Reproductive system and breast disorders Amenorrhea 0 0 6 0 0 Galactorrhea 0 0 0 4 0 Gynecomastia 0 0 0 0 3 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Epistaxis 0 0 0 2 0 6.3 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizoaffective Disorder in Adults Table 6 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) and for which the incidence in INVEGA(R)-treated subjects was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 6. Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by >= 2% of INVEGA(R)-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizoaffective Disorder in Two Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the INVEGA(R) dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from two studies. One study included once-daily INVEGA(R) doses of 6 mg (with the option to reduce to 3 mg) and 12 mg (with the option to reduce to 9 mg). The second study included flexible once-daily doses of 3 to 12 mg. Among the 420 subjects treated with INVEGA(R), 230 (55%) received INVEGA(R) as monotherapy and 190 (45%) received INVEGA(R) as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms bradykinesia, drooling, dyskinesia, dystonia, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle twitching, oculogyration, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, restlessness, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) INVEGA(R) INVEGA(R) Placebo 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose Body System or Organ Class (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 32 48 50 43 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 2 3 1 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal discomfort/Abdominal pain upper 1 1 0 3 Constipation 2 4 5 4 Dyspepsia 2 5 6 6 Nausea 6 8 8 5 Stomach discomfort 1 0 1 2 General disorders Asthenia 1 3 4 <1 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 2 5 3 Rhinitis 0 1 3 1 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 2 2 2 Investigations Weight increased 1 5 4 4 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite <1 1 0 2 Increased appetite <1 3 2 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 1 1 1 3 Myalgia <1 2 4 1 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 6 6 Dysarthria 0 1 4 2 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 20 17 12 Somnolence 5 12 12 8 Psychiatric disorders Sleep disorder <1 2 3 0 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 1 3 1 Pharyngolaryngeal pain <1 0 2 1 Monotherapy versus Adjunctive Therapy The designs of the two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder included the option for subjects to receive antidepressants (except monoamine oxidase inhibitors) and/or mood stabilizers (lithium, valproate, or lamotrigine). In the subject population evaluated for safety, 230 (55%) subjects received INVEGA(R) as monotherapy and 190 (45%) subjects received INVEGA(R) as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. When comparing these 2 subpopulations, only nausea occurred at a greater frequency (>= 3% difference) in subjects receiving INVEGA(R) as monotherapy. 6.4 Discontinuations Due to Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the three schizophrenia placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults were 3% and 1% in INVEGA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were nervous system disorders (2% and 0% in INVEGA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). Among the adverse reactions in the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, only dystonia led to discontinuation (<1% of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects). Schizoaffective Disorder Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the two schizoaffective disorder placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adults were 1% and <1% in INVEGA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were gastrointestinal disorders (1% and 0% in INVEGA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). 6.5 Dose-Related Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials Based on the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with a greater than 2% incidence in the subjects treated with INVEGA(R), the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, akathisia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, parkinsonism, and salivary hypersecretion. For most of these, the increased incidence was seen primarily at the 12 mg dose, and, in some cases, the 9 mg dose. In the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with >2% incidence in the subjects treated with INVEGA(R), the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: tachycardia, akathisia, extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, and headache. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In a placebo-controlled, 6-week, high- and low-dose study in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, akathisia, dystonia, dysarthria, myalgia, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, cough, and pharyngolaryngeal pain occurred more frequently (i.e., a difference of at least 2%) in subjects who received higher doses of INVEGA(R) compared with subjects who received lower doses. 6.6 Demographic Differences An examination of population subgroups in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and in the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder did not reveal any evidence of clinically relevant differences in safety on the basis of gender or race alone; there was also no difference on the basis of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. 6.7 Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia provided information regarding treatment-emergent EPS. Several methods were used to measure EPS: (1) the Simpson-Angus global score (mean change from baseline) which broadly evaluates Parkinsonism, (2) the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global clinical rating score (mean change from baseline) which evaluates akathisia, (3) use of anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS (Table 7), and (4) incidence of spontaneous reports of EPS (Table 8). For the Simpson-Angus Scale, spontaneous EPS reports and use of anticholinergic medications, there was a dose-related increase observed for the 9 mg and 12 mg doses. There was no difference observed between placebo and INVEGA(R) 3 mg and 6 mg doses for any of these EPS measures. Table 7. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Assessed by Incidence of Ratings Scales and Use of Anticholinergic Medication - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Parkinsonism For Parkinsonism, percent of patients with Simpson-Angus global score > 0.3 (Global score defined as total sum of items score divided by the number of items) 9 11 3 15 14 AkathisiaFor Akathisia, percent of patients with Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global score >= 2 6 6 4 7 9 Use of anticholinergic medicationsPercent of patients who received anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS 10 10 9 22 22 Table 8. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle twitching, tardive dyskinesia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration, trismus Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, drooling, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 13 10 25 26 Dyskinesia 3 5 3 8 9 Dystonia 1 1 1 5 5 Hyperkinesia 4 4 3 8 10 Parkinsonism 2 3 3 7 6 Tremor 3 3 3 4 3 Compared to data from the studies in adults subjects with schizophrenia, pooled data from the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder showed similar types and frequencies of EPS as measured by rating scales, anticholinergic medication use, and spontaneous reports of EPS-related adverse events. For subjects with schizoaffective disorder, there was no dose-related increase in EPS observed for parkinsonism with the Simpson-Angus scale or akathisia with the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale. There was a dose-related increase observed with spontaneous EPS reports of hyperkinesia and dystonia and in the use of anticholinergic medications. Table 9 shows the EPS data from the pooled schizoaffective disorder trials. Table 9. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizoaffective Disorder Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose EPS Group (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle twitching Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia, restlessness Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, drooling, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle tightness, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 23 22 17 Dyskinesia 1 3 1 1 Dystonia 1 2 3 2 Hyperkinesia 5 5 8 7 Parkinsonism 3 14 7 7 Tremor 3 12 11 5 The incidences of EPS-related adverse events in the adolescent schizophrenia studies showed a similar dose-related pattern to those in the adult studies. There were notably higher incidences of dystonia, hyperkinesia, tremor, and parkinsonism in the adolescent population as compared to the adult studies (Table 10). Table 10. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adolescent Subjects Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 1.5 mg once daily 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle contracture, oculogyric crisis, tongue paralysis, torticollis Tremor group includes: Tremor Parkinsonism group includes: Cogwheel rigidity, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle rigidity Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle contractions involuntary Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 0 6 25 22 40 Hyperkinesia 0 4 6 11 17 Dystonia 0 2 0 11 14 Tremor 0 2 6 7 11 Parkinsonism 0 0 6 2 14 Dyskinesia 0 2 6 2 6 Dystonia Class Effect: Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. 6.8 Laboratory Test Abnormalities In the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, between-group comparisons revealed no medically important differences between INVEGA(R) and placebo in the proportions of subjects experiencing potentially clinically significant changes in routine serum chemistry, hematology, or urinalysis parameters. Similarly, there were no differences between INVEGA(R) and placebo in the incidence of discontinuations due to changes in hematology, urinalysis, or serum chemistry, including mean changes from baseline in fasting glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglyceride, HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol measurements. However, INVEGA(R) was associated with increases in serum prolactin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 6.9 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During Premarketing Evaluation of INVEGA(R) The following additional adverse reactions occurred in < 2% of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects in the above schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder clinical trial datasets. The following also includes additional adverse reactions reported at any frequency by INVEGA(R)-treated subjects who participated in other clinical studies. Cardiac disorders: bradycardia, palpitations Eye disorders: eye movement disorder Gastrointestinal disorders: flatulence General disorders: edema Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reaction Infections and infestations: urinary tract infection Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, pain in extremity Nervous system disorders: opisthotonus Psychiatric disorders: agitation, insomnia, nightmare Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast discomfort, menstruation irregular, retrograde ejaculation Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: nasal congestion Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: pruritus, rash Vascular disorders: hypertension The safety of INVEGA(R) was also evaluated in a long-term trial designed to assess the maintenance of effect with INVEGA(R) in adults with schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14)]. In general, adverse reaction types, frequencies, and severities during the initial 14-week open-label phase of this study were comparable to those observed in the 6-week, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose studies. Adverse reactions reported during the long-term double-blind phase of this study were similar in type and severity to those observed in the initial 14-week open-label phase. 6.10 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of INVEGA(R); because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency: angioedema, ileus, priapism, swollen tongue, tardive dyskinesia, urinary incontinence, urinary retention. 6.11 Adverse Reactions Reported With Risperidone Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone. Adverse reactions reported with risperidone can be found in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section of the risperidone package insert."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions: An increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (e.g. stroke, transient ischemic attack, including fatalities) has been seen in elderly patients with dementia- related psychoses treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.2) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: Manage with immediate discontinuation of drug and close monitoring. (5.3) QT Prolongation: Increase in QT interval, avoid use with drugs that also increase QT interval and in patients with risk factors for prolonged QT interval. (5.4) Tardive Dyskinesia: Discontinue drug if clinically appropriate. (5.5) Metabolic Changes: Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/ cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and weight gain. (5.6) Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus: Monitor patients for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Monitor glucose regularly in patients with diabetes or at risk for diabetes. (5.6) Dyslipidemia: Undesirable alterations have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.6) Weight Gain: Significant weight gain has been reported. Monitor weight gain. (5.6) Hyperprolactinemia: Prolactin elevations occur and persist during chronic administration. (5.7) Gastrointestinal Narrowing: Obstructive symptoms may result in patients with gastrointestinal disease. (5.8) Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope: Use with caution in patients with known cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease and patients predisposed to hypotension. (5.9) Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis: has been reported with antipsychotics, including INVEGA(R). Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of INVEGA(R) should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. (5.10) Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment: Use caution when operating machinery. (5.11) Seizures: Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold. (5.12) Suicide: Closely supervise high-risk patients. (5.14) 5.1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. INVEGA(R) (paliperidone) is not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients With Dementia-Related Psychosis In placebo-controlled trials with risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine in elderly subjects with dementia, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks) including fatalities compared to placebo-treated subjects. INVEGA(R) was not marketed at the time these studies were performed. INVEGA(R) is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see also Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs, including paliperidone. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases in which the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system pathology. The management of NMS should include: (1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy; (2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring; and (3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient appears to require antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, reintroduction of drug therapy should be closely monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. 5.4 QT Prolongation Paliperidone causes a modest increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. The use of paliperidone should be avoided in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Paliperidone should also be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias. Certain circumstances may increase the risk of the occurrence of torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval, including (1) bradycardia; (2) hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia; (3) concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval; and (4) presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval. The effects of paliperidone on the QT interval were evaluated in a double-blind, active-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg single dose), multicenter QT study in adults with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, and in three placebo- and active-controlled 6-week, fixed-dose efficacy trials in adults with schizophrenia. In the QT study (n = 141), the 8 mg dose of immediate-release oral paliperidone (n=50) showed a mean placebo-subtracted increase from baseline in QTcLD of 12.3 msec (90% CI: 8.9; 15.6) on day 8 at 1.5 hours post-dose. The mean steady-state peak plasma concentration for this 8 mg dose of paliperidone immediate-release was more than twice the exposure observed with the maximum recommended 12 mg dose of INVEGA(R) (Cmax ss = 113 ng/mL and 45 ng/mL, respectively, when administered with a standard breakfast). In this same study, a 4 mg dose of the immediate-release oral formulation of paliperidone, for which Cmax ss = 35 ng/mL, showed an increased placebo-subtracted QTcLD of 6.8 msec (90% CI: 3.6; 10.1) on day 2 at 1.5 hours post-dose. None of the subjects had a change exceeding 60 msec or a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time during this study. For the three fixed-dose efficacy studies in subjects with schizophrenia, electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements taken at various time points showed only one subject in the INVEGA(R) 12 mg group had a change exceeding 60 msec at one time-point on Day 6 (increase of 62 msec). No subject receiving INVEGA(R) had a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time in any of these three studies. 5.5 Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to predict which patients will develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible appear to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase, but the syndrome can develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses, although this is uncommon. There is no known treatment for established tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and may thus mask the underlying process. The effect of symptomatic suppression on the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, INVEGA(R) should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient treated with INVEGA(R), drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment with INVEGA(R) despite the presence of the syndrome. 5.6 Metabolic Changes Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and body weight gain. While all of the drugs in the class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus Hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus, in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, have been reported in patients treated with all atypical antipsychotics. These cases were, for the most part, seen in post-marketing clinical use and epidemiologic studies, not in clinical trials, and there have been few reports of hyperglycemia or diabetes in trial subjects treated with INVEGA(R). Assessment of the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and glucose abnormalities is complicated by the possibility of an increased background risk of diabetes mellitus in patients with schizophrenia and the increasing incidence of diabetes mellitus in the general population. Given these confounders, the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and hyperglycemia-related adverse events is not completely understood. However, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of treatment-emergent hyperglycemia-related adverse events in patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics. Because INVEGA(R) was not marketed at the time these studies were performed, it is not known if INVEGA(R) is associated with this increased risk. Patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Patients with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes) who are starting treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. Any patient treated with atypical antipsychotics should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the atypical antipsychotic was discontinued; however, some patients required continuation of anti-diabetic treatment despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1a. Table 1a. Change in Fasting Glucose from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=322 n=122 n=212 n=234 n=218 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -0.7 0.4 2.3 4.3 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 5.1% 3.2% 4.5% 4.8% 3.8% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (12/236) (3/93) (7/156) (9/187) (6/157) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, INVEGA(R) was associated with a mean change in glucose of +3.3 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=570) and +4.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=314). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1b. Table 1b. Change in Fasting Glucose from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia INVEGA(R) Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=41 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -1.4 -1.8 -0.1 5.2 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 3% 0% 0% 0% 11% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (1/32) (0/34) (0/9) (0/20) (3/27) Dyslipidemia Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2a. Table 2a. Change in Fasting Lipids from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=331 n=120 n=216 n=236 n=231 Change from baseline -6.3 -4.4 -2.4 -5.3 -4.0 LDL n=322 n=116 n=210 n=231 n=225 Change from baseline -3.2 0.5 -0.8 -3.9 -2.0 HDL n=331 n=119 n=216 n=234 n=230 Change from baseline 0.3 -0.4 0.5 0.8 1.2 Triglycerides n=331 n=120 n=216 n=236 n=231 Change from baseline -22.3 -18.3 -12.6 -10.6 -15.4 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 2.6% 2.8% 5.6% 4.1% 3.1% (<200 mg/dL to >=240 mg/dL) (5/194) (2/71) (7/125) (6/147) (4/130) LDL Normal to High 1.9% 0.0% 5.0% 3.7% 0.0% (<100 mg/dL to >=160 mg/dL) (2/105) (0/44) (3/60) (3/81) (0/69) HDL Normal to Low 22.0% 16.3% 29.1% 23.4% 20.0% ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (44/200) (13/80) (39/134) (32/137) (27/135) Triglycerides Normal to High 5.3% 11.0% 8.8% 8.7% 4.3% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (11/208) (9/82) (12/136) (13/150) (6/139) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, INVEGA(R) was associated with a mean change in (a) total cholesterol of -1.5 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -1.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317), (b) triglycerides of -6.4 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -10.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317); (c) LDL of -1.9 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=557) and -2.7 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=297); and (d) HDL of +2.2 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=568) and +3.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=302). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2b. Table 2b. Change in Fasting Lipids from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia INVEGA(R) Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=39 n=45 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -7.8 -3.3 12.7 3.0 -1.5 LDL n=37 n=40 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -4.1 -3.1 7.2 2.4 0.6 HDL n=37 n=41 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -1.9 0.0 1.3 1.4 0.0 Triglycerides n=39 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -8.9 3.2 17.6 -5.4 3.9 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 7% 4% 0% 6% 11% (<170 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (2/27) (1/26) (0/6) (1/18) (2/19) LDL Normal to High 3% 4% 14% 0% 9% (<110 mg/dL to >=130 mg/dL) (1/32) (1/25) (1/7) (0/22) (2/22) HDL Normal to Low 14% 7% 29% 13% 23% ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (4/28) (2/30) (2/7) (3/23) (5/22) Triglycerides Normal to High 3% 5% 13% 8% 7% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (1/34) (2/38) (1/8) (2/26) (2/28) Weight Gain Weight gain has been observed with atypical antipsychotic use. Clinical monitoring of weight is recommended. Schizophrenia Trials Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects are presented in Table 3a. Table 3a. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day n=323 n=112 n=215 n=235 n=218 Weight (kg) Change from baseline -0.4 0.6 0.6 1.0 1.1 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 5% 7% 6% 9% 9% In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, INVEGA(R) was associated with a mean change in weight of +1.4 kg at Week 24 (n=63) and +2.6 kg at Week 52 (n=302). Weight gain in adolescent subjects with schizophrenia was assessed in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study and an open-label extension with a median duration of exposure to INVEGA(R) of 182 days. Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) are presented in Table 3b. Table 3b. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia INVEGA(R) Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day n=51 n=54 n=16 n=45 n=34 Weight (kg) Change from baseline 0.0 0.3 0.8 1.2 1.5 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 2% 6% 19% 7% 18% In the open-label long-term study the proportion of total subjects treated with INVEGA(R) with an increase in body weight of >= 7% from baseline was 33%. When treating adolescent patients with INVEGA(R), weight gain should be assessed against that expected with normal growth. When taking into consideration the median duration of exposure to INVEGA(R) in the open-label study (182 days) along with expected normal growth in this population based on age and gender, an assessment of standardized scores relative to normative data provides a more clinically relevant measure of changes in weight. The mean change from open-label baseline to endpoint in standardized score for weight was 0.1 (4% above the median for normative data). Based on comparison to the normative data, these changes are not considered to be clinically significant. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In the pooled data from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, a higher percentage of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects (5%) had an increase in body weight of >= 7% compared with placebo-treated subjects (1%). In the study that examined high- and low-dose groups, the increase in body weight of >= 7% was 3% in the low-dose group, 7% in the high-dose group, and 1% in the placebo group. 5.7 Hyperprolactinemia Like other drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, paliperidone elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration. Paliperidone has a prolactin-elevating effect similar to that seen with risperidone, a drug that is associated with higher levels of prolactin than other antipsychotic drugs. Hyperprolactinemia, regardless of etiology, may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence have been reported in patients receiving prolactin-elevating compounds. Long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male subjects. Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin dependent in vitro, a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is considered in a patient with previously detected breast cancer. An increase in the incidence of pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasia (mammary adenocarcinomas, pituitary and pancreatic adenomas) was observed in the risperidone carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date have shown an association between chronic administration of this class of drugs and tumorigenesis in humans, but the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive. 5.8 Potential for Gastrointestinal Obstruction Because the INVEGA(R) tablet is non-deformable and does not appreciably change in shape in the gastrointestinal tract, INVEGA(R) should ordinarily not be administered to patients with pre-existing severe gastrointestinal narrowing (pathologic or iatrogenic, for example: esophageal motility disorders, small bowel inflammatory disease, \"short gut\" syndrome due to adhesions or decreased transit time, past history of peritonitis, cystic fibrosis, chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, or Meckel's diverticulum). There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of drugs in non-deformable controlled-release formulations. Because of the controlled-release design of the tablet, INVEGA(R) should only be used in patients who are able to swallow the tablet whole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Patient Counseling Information (17.8)]. A decrease in transit time, e.g., as seen with diarrhea, would be expected to decrease bioavailability and an increase in transit time, e.g., as seen with gastrointestinal neuropathy, diabetic gastroparesis, or other causes, would be expected to increase bioavailability. These changes in bioavailability are more likely when the changes in transit time occur in the upper GI tract. 5.9 Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Paliperidone can induce orthostatic hypotension and syncope in some patients because of its alpha-blocking activity. In pooled results of the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose trials in subjects with schizophrenia, syncope was reported in 0.8% (7/850) of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) compared to 0.3% (1/355) of subjects treated with placebo. INVEGA(R) should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, history of myocardial infarction or ischemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension. 5.10 Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis Class Effect: In clinical trial and/or postmarketing experience, events of leukopenia/neutropenia have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents, including INVEGA(R). Agranulocytosis has also been reported. Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC) and history of drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low WBC or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of INVEGA(R) should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1000/mm3) should discontinue INVEGA(R) and have their WBC followed until recovery. 5.11 Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment Somnolence was reported in subjects treated with INVEGA(R) [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)]. Antipsychotics, including INVEGA(R), have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Patients should be cautioned about performing activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating hazardous machinery or operating a motor vehicle, until they are reasonably certain that paliperidone therapy does not adversely affect them. 5.12 Seizures During premarketing clinical trials in subjects with schizophrenia (the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies and a study conducted in elderly schizophrenic subjects), seizures occurred in 0.22% of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) and 0.25% of subjects treated with placebo. Like other antipsychotic drugs, INVEGA(R) should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. 5.13 Dysphagia Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with advanced Alzheimer's dementia. INVEGA(R) and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration pneumonia. 5.14 Suicide The possibility of suicide attempt is inherent in psychotic illnesses, and close supervision of high-risk patients should accompany drug therapy. Prescriptions for INVEGA(R) should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose. 5.15 Priapism Drugs with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have been reported to induce priapism. Priapism has been reported with INVEGA(R) during postmarketing surveillance. Severe priapism may require surgical intervention. 5.16 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) No cases of TTP were observed during clinical studies with paliperidone. Although cases of TTP have been reported in association with risperidone administration, the relationship to risperidone therapy is unknown. 5.17 Body Temperature Regulation Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing INVEGA(R) to patients who will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration. 5.18 Antiemetic Effect An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain drugs or of conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye's syndrome, and brain tumor. 5.19 Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness Clinical experience with INVEGA(R) in patients with certain concomitant illnesses is limited [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies are reported to have an increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medication. Manifestations of this increased sensitivity include confusion, obtundation, postural instability with frequent falls, extrapyramidal symptoms, and clinical features consistent with the neuroleptic malignant syndrome. INVEGA(R) has not been evaluated or used to any appreciable extent in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable heart disease. Patients with these diagnoses were excluded from premarketing clinical trials. Because of the risk of orthostatic hypotension with INVEGA(R), caution should be observed in patients with known cardiovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. 5.20 Monitoring: Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are recommended."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Paliperidone&limit=1&skip=1
Page 1 of 11
        "generic_name": [
          "PALIPERIDONE PALMITATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "INVEGA SUSTENNA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Because paliperidone palmitate is hydrolyzed to paliperidone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], results from studies with oral paliperidone should be taken into consideration when assessing drug-drug interaction potential. Drugs that may cause orthostatic hypotension: An additive effect may occur when co-administered with INVEGA SUSTENNA(R). (7.1) Strong CYP3A4/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducers: It may be necessary to increase the dose of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) when a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin, St John's wort) is co-administered. Conversely, on discontinuation of the strong inducer, it may be necessary to decrease the dose of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R). (7.2, 12.3) 7.1 Potential for INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) to Affect Other Drugs Paliperidone may antagonize the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension, an additive effect may occur when INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. No dose adjustment is necessary for lithium when it is coadministered with INVEGA SUSTENNA(R). Pharmacokinetic interaction between INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) and lithium is unlikely. No dose adjustment is necessary for valproate when INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) is added to the therapy. Steady-state pharmacokinetics of valproate was not affected when patients were coadministered oral paliperidone extended-release tablets [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) On initiation of strong inducers of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin, or St John's wort), it may be necessary to increase the dose of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R). Conversely, on discontinuation of the strong inducer, it may be necessary to decrease the dose of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. No dose adjustment is necessary for INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) when valproate is added to treatment [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. No dose adjustment is necessary for INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) when it is coadministered with lithium. Pharmacokinetic interaction between INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) and lithium is unlikely. In vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be involved in paliperidone metabolism; however, there is no evidence in vivo that inhibitors of these enzymes significantly affect the metabolism of paliperidone. Paliperidone is not a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19; an interaction with inhibitors or inducers of these isozymes is unlikely."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cerebrovascular adverse reactions, including stroke, in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Tardive dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Metabolic changes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Orthostatic hypotension and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Hyperprolactinemia [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Potential for cognitive and motor impairment [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Dysphagia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Disruption of body temperature regulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] The most common (at least 5% in any INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) group) and likely drug-related (adverse events for which the drug rate is at least twice the placebo rate) adverse reactions from the double-blind, placebo-controlled trials in subjects with schizophrenia were injection site reactions, somnolence/sedation, dizziness, akathisia, and extrapyramidal disorder. No occurrences of adverse events reached this threshold in the long-term double-blind, placebo-controlled study in subjects with schizoaffective disorder. The data described in this section are derived from a clinical trial database consisting of a total of 3817 subjects (approximately 1705 patient-years exposure) with schizophrenia who received at least one dose of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) in the recommended dose range of 39 mg to 234 mg and a total of 510 subjects with schizophrenia who received placebo. Among the 3817 INVEGA SUSTENNA(R)-treated subjects, 1293 received INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) in four fixed-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (one 9-week and three 13-week studies), 849 received INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) in the maintenance trial (median exposure 229 days during the initial 33-week open-label phase of this study, of whom 205 continued to receive INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) during the double-blind placebo-controlled phase of this study [median exposure 171 days]), and 1675 received INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) in five non-placebo controlled trials (three noninferiority active-comparator trials, one long-term open-label pharmacokinetic and safety study, and an injection site [deltoid-gluteal] cross-over trial). One of the 13-week studies included a 234 mg INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) initiation dose followed by treatment with either 39 mg, 156 mg, or 234 mg every 4 weeks. The safety of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) was also evaluated in a long-term study in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder. A total of 667 subjects received INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) during the initial 25-week open-label period of this study (median exposure 147 days); 164 subjects continued to receive INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) during the 15-month double-blind placebo-controlled period of this study (median exposure 446 days). Adverse reactions that occurred more frequently in the INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) than the placebo group (a 2% difference or more between groups) were weight increased, nasopharyngitis, headache, hyperprolactinemia, and pyrexia. The most common adverse reactions (incidence >= 5% and occurring at least twice as often as placebo) were injection site reactions, somnolence/sedation, dizziness, akathisia, and extrapyramidal disorder. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-JANSSEN (1-800-526-7736) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Commonly Reported Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Table 10 lists the adverse reactions reported in 2% or more of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R)-treated subjects and at a greater proportion than in the placebo group with schizophrenia in the four fixed-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. Table 10. Incidence of Adverse Reactions in >= 2% of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R)-Treated Subjects (and greater than Placebo) with Schizophrenia in Four Fixed-Dose, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trials INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) System Organ Class PlaceboPlacebo group is pooled from all studies and included either deltoid or gluteal injection depending on study design. 39 mg 78 mg 156 mg 234/39 mgInitial deltoid injection of 234 mg followed by either 39 mg, 156 mg, or 234 mg every 4 weeks by deltoid or gluteal injection. Other dose groups (39 mg, 78 mg, and 156 mg) are from studies involving only gluteal injection. [See Clinical Studies (14.1)] 234/156 mg 234/234 mg Adverse Event (N=510) (N=130) (N=302) (N=312) (N=160) (N=165) (N=163) Percentages are rounded to whole numbers. Table includes adverse events that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Adverse events for which the INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) incidence was equal to or less than placebo are not listed in the table, but included the following: dyspepsia, psychotic disorder, schizophrenia, and tremor. The following terms were combined: somnolence/sedation, breast tenderness/breast pain, abdominal discomfort/abdominal pain upper/stomach discomfort, and tachycardia/sinus tachycardia/heart rate increased. All injection site reaction-related adverse events were collapsed and are grouped under \"Injection site reactions\". Total percentage of subjects with adverse event 70 75 68 69 63 60 63 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal discomfort/abdominal pain upper 2 2 4 4 1 2 4 Diarrhea 2 0 3 2 1 2 2 Dry mouth 1 3 1 0 1 1 1 Nausea 3 4 4 3 2 2 2 Toothache 1 1 1 3 1 2 3 Vomiting 4 5 4 2 3 2 2 General disorders and administration site conditions Asthenia 0 2 1 <1 0 1 1 Fatigue 1 1 2 2 1 2 1 Injection site reactions 2 0 4 6 9 7 10 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 2 0 2 2 4 2 2 Upper respiratory tract infection 2 2 2 2 1 2 4 Urinary tract infection 1 0 1 <1 1 1 2 Investigations Weight increased 1 4 4 1 1 1 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 2 2 1 3 1 1 1 Musculoskeletal stiffness 1 1 <1 <1 1 1 2 Myalgia 1 2 1 <1 1 0 2 Pain in extremity 1 0 2 2 2 3 0 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 3 2 2 3 1 5 6 Dizziness 1 6 2 4 1 4 2 Extrapyramidal disorder 1 5 2 3 1 0 0 Headache 12 11 11 15 11 7 6 Somnolence/sedation 3 5 7 4 1 5 5 Psychiatric disorders Agitation 7 10 5 9 8 5 4 Anxiety 7 8 5 3 5 6 6 Nightmare <1 2 0 0 0 0 0 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 2 3 1 0 1 1 Vascular disorders Hypertension 1 2 1 1 1 1 0 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During the Clinical Trial Evaluation of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) The following list does not include reactions: 1) already listed in previous tables or elsewhere in labeling, 2) for which a drug cause was remote, 3) which were so general as to be uninformative, or 4) which were not considered to have significant clinical implications. Cardiac disorders: atrioventricular block first degree, bradycardia, bundle branch block, palpitations, postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome, tachycardia Ear and labyrinth disorders: vertigo Eye disorders: eye movement disorder, eye rolling, oculogyric crisis, vision blurred Gastrointestinal disorders: constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, salivary hypersecretion Immune system disorders: hypersensitivity Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, electrocardiogram abnormal Metabolism and nutrition disorders: decreased appetite, hyperinsulinemia, increased appetite Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, joint stiffness, muscle rigidity, muscle spasms, muscle tightness, muscle twitching, nuchal rigidity Nervous system disorders: bradykinesia, cerebrovascular accident, convulsion, dizziness postural, drooling, dysarthria, dyskinesia, dystonia, hypertonia, lethargy, oromandibular dystonia, parkinsonism, psychomotor hyperactivity, syncope Psychiatric disorders: insomnia, restlessness Reproductive system and breast disorders: amenorrhea, breast discharge, erectile dysfunction, galactorrhea, gynecomastia, menstrual disorder, menstruation delayed, menstruation irregular, sexual dysfunction Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: nasal congestion Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: drug eruption, pruritus, pruritus generalized, rash, urticaria Discontinuations Due to Adverse Events The percentage of subjects who discontinued due to adverse events in the four fixed-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled schizophrenia trials were similar for INVEGA SUSTENNA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects. The percentage of subjects who discontinued due to adverse events in the open-label period of the long-term study in subjects with schizoaffective disorder was 7.5%. During the double-blind, placebo-controlled period of that study, the percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse events were 5.5% and 1.8% in INVEGA SUSTENNA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. Dose-Related Adverse Reactions Based on the pooled data from the four fixed-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials in subjects with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred at >= 2% incidence in the subjects treated with INVEGA SUSTENNA(R), only akathisia increased with dose. Hyperprolactinemia also exhibited a dose relationship, but did not occur at >= 2% incidence in INVEGA SUSTENNA(R)-treated subjects from the four fixed-dose studies. Demographic Differences An examination of population subgroups in the double-blind placebo-controlled trials did not reveal any evidence of differences in safety on the basis of age, gender, or race alone; however, there were few subjects >= 65 years of age. Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Pooled data from the two double-blind, placebo-controlled, 13-week, fixed-dose trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia provided information regarding EPS. Several methods were used to measure EPS: (1) the Simpson-Angus global score (mean change from baseline or score at the end of trial) which broadly evaluates Parkinsonism, (2) the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global clinical rating score (mean change from baseline or score at the end of trial) which evaluates akathisia, (3) use of anticholinergic medications to treat EPS, (4) the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale scores (mean change from baseline or scores at the end of trial) (Table 11), and (5) incidence of spontaneous reports of EPS (Table 12). Table 11. Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Assessed by Incidence of Rating Scales and Use of Anticholinergic Medication - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Subjects INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) Placebo 39 mg 78 mg 156 mg Scale (N=262) (N=130) (N=223) (N=228) ParkinsonismFor Parkinsonism, percent of subjects with Simpson-Angus Total score > 0.3 at endpoint (Total score defined as total sum of items score divided by the number of items) 9 12 10 6 AkathisiaFor Akathisia, percent of subjects with Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global score >= 2 at endpoint 5 5 6 5 DyskinesiaFor Dyskinesia, percent of subjects with a score >= 3 on any of the first 7 items or a score >= 2 on two or more of any of the first 7 items of the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale at endpoint 3 4 6 4 Use of Anticholinergic MedicationsPercent of subjects who received anticholinergic medications to treat EPS 12 10 12 11 Table 12. Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Subjects INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) Placebo 39 mg 78 mg 156 mg EPS Group (N=262) (N=130) (N=223) (N=228) Parkinsonism group includes: Extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism, drooling, masked facies, muscle tightness, hypokinesia Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, restless legs syndrome, restlessness Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, choreoathetosis, muscle twitching, myoclonus, tardive dyskinesia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms Overall percentage of subjects with EPS-related adverse events 10 12 11 11 Parkinsonism 5 6 6 4 Hyperkinesia 2 2 2 4 Tremor 3 2 2 3 Dyskinesia 1 2 3 1 Dystonia 0 1 1 2 The results across all phases of the maintenance trial in subjects with schizophrenia exhibited comparable findings. In the 9-week, fixed-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, the proportions of Parkinsonism and akathisia assessed by incidence of rating scales were higher in the INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) 156 mg group (18% and 11%, respectively) than in the INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) 78 mg group (9% and 5%, respectively) and placebo group (7% and 4%, respectively). In the 13-week study in subjects with schizophrenia involving 234 mg initiation dosing, the incidence of any EPS was similar to that of the placebo group (8%), but exhibited a dose-related pattern with 6%, 10%, and 11% in the INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) 234/39 mg, 234/156 mg, and 234/234 mg groups, respectively. Hyperkinesia was the most frequent category of EPS-related adverse events in this study, and was reported at a similar rate between the placebo (4.9%) and INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) 234/156 mg (4.8%) and 234/234 mg (5.5%) groups, but at a lower rate in the 234/39 mg group (1.3%). In the long-term study in subjects with schizoaffective disorder, the EPS during the 25-week open-label INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) treatment were hyperkinesia (12.3%), parkinsonism (8.7%), tremor (3.4%), dyskinesia (2.5%), and dystonia (2.1%). During the 15-month double-blind treatment, the incidence of any EPS was similar to that of the placebo group (8.5% and 7.1% respectively). The most commonly reported treatment-emergent EPS-related adverse events (>2%) in any treatment group in the double-blind phase of the study (INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) versus placebo) were hyperkinesia (3.7% vs. 2.9%), parkinsonism (3.0% vs. 1.8%), and tremor (1.2% vs. 2.4%). Dystonia Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. Laboratory Test Abnormalities In the pooled data from the two double-blind, placebo-controlled, 13-week, fixed-dose trials in subjects with schizophrenia, a between-group comparison revealed no medically important differences between INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) and placebo in the proportions of subjects experiencing potentially clinically significant changes in routine serum chemistry, hematology, or urinalysis parameters. Similarly, there were no differences between INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) and placebo in the incidence of discontinuations due to changes in hematology, urinalysis, or serum chemistry, including mean changes from baseline in fasting glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglycerides, HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol measurements. However, INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) was associated with increases in serum prolactin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. The results from the 13-week study involving 234 mg initiation dosing, the 9-week, fixed-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, and the double-blind phase of the maintenance trial in subjects with schizophrenia exhibited comparable findings. Pain Assessment and Local Injection Site Reactions In the pooled data from the two 13-week, fixed-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials in subjects with schizophrenia, the mean intensity of injection pain reported by subjects using a visual analog scale (0 = no pain to 100 = unbearably painful) decreased in all treatment groups from the first to the last injection (placebo: 10.9 to 9.8; 39 mg: 10.3 to 7.7; 78 mg: 10.0 to 9.2; 156 mg: 11.1 to 8.8). The results from both the 9-week, fixed-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial and the double-blind phase of the maintenance trial exhibited comparable findings. In the 13-week study involving 234 mg initiation dosing in subjects with schizophrenia, occurrences of induration, redness, or swelling, as assessed by blinded study personnel, were infrequent, generally mild, decreased over time, and similar in incidence between the INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) and placebo groups. Investigator ratings of injection pain were similar for the placebo and INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) groups. Investigator evaluations of the injection site after the first injection for redness, swelling, induration, and pain were rated as absent for 69-100% of subjects in both the INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) and placebo groups. At Day 92, investigators rated absence of redness, swelling, induration, and pain in 95-100% of subjects in both the INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) and placebo groups. Adverse Reactions Reported in Clinical Trials with Oral Paliperidone The following is a list of additional adverse reactions that have been reported in clinical trials with oral paliperidone: Cardiac disorders: bundle branch block left, sinus arrhythmia Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal pain, small intestinal obstruction General disorders and administration site conditions: edema, edema peripheral Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reaction Infections and infestations: rhinitis Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: musculoskeletal pain, torticollis, trismus Nervous system disorders: cogwheel rigidity, grand mal convulsion, parkinsonian gait, transient ischemic attack Psychiatric disorders: sleep disorder Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast engorgement, breast tenderness/breast pain, retrograde ejaculation Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: pharyngolaryngeal pain, pneumonia aspiration Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: rash papular Vascular disorders: hypotension, ischemia 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of paliperidone; because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Reactions already listed in other parts of ADVERSE REACTIONS (6) , or those considered in WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5) are not listed here. Blood disorders: thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura Gastrointestinal disorders: ileus Genitourinary disorders: urinary incontinence, urinary retention Immune system disorders: angioedema, swollen tongue Cases of anaphylactic reaction after injection with INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) have been reported during postmarketing experience in patients who have previously tolerated oral risperidone or oral paliperidone. 6.3 Adverse Reactions Reported With Risperidone Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone. Adverse reactions reported with oral risperidone and risperidone long-acting injection can be found in the ADVERSE REACTIONS sections of the package inserts for those products."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis: Increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (e.g. stroke, transient ischemic attack, including fatalities). INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) is not approved for use in patients with dementia-related psychosis (5.2) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: Manage with immediate discontinuation of drug and close monitoring (5.3) QT Prolongation: Avoid use with drugs that also increase QT interval and in patients with risk factors for prolonged QT interval (5.4) Tardive Dyskinesia: Discontinue drug if clinically appropriate (5.5) Metabolic Changes: Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include: Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus: Monitor for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Monitor glucose regularly in patients with diabetes or at risk for diabetes. (5.6) Dyslipidemia: Undesirable alterations have been observed. (5.6) Weight Gain: Significant weight gain has been reported. Monitor weight gain. (5.6) Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope: Use with caution in patients with known cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease and patients predisposed to hypotension (5.7) Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis: Monitor complete blood count in patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Consider discontinuation if clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors (5.8) Hyperprolactinemia: Prolactin elevations occur and persist during chronic administration (5.9) Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment: Use caution when operating machinery (5.10) Seizures: Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold (5.11) 5.1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Analyses of 17 placebo-controlled trials (modal duration of 10 weeks), largely in patients taking atypical antipsychotic drugs, revealed a risk of death in drug-treated patients of between 1.6 to 1.7 times the risk of death in placebo-treated patients. Over the course of a typical 10-week controlled trial, the rate of death in drug-treated patients was about 4.5%, compared to a rate of about 2.6% in the placebo group. Although the causes of death were varied, most of the deaths appeared to be either cardiovascular (e.g., heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (e.g., pneumonia) in nature. Observational studies suggest that, similar to atypical antipsychotic drugs, treatment with conventional antipsychotic drugs may increase mortality. The extent to which the findings of increased mortality in observational studies may be attributed to the antipsychotic drug as opposed to some characteristic(s) of the patients is not clear. INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) (paliperidone palmitate) is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis In placebo-controlled trials with risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine in elderly subjects with dementia, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks) including fatalities compared to placebo-treated subjects. Oral paliperidone and INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) were not marketed at the time these studies were performed and are not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs, including INVEGA SUSTENNA(R). Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases in which the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system pathology. The management of NMS should include: (1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy; (2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring; and (3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient appears to require antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, reintroduction of drug therapy should be closely monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. 5.4 QT Prolongation Paliperidone causes a modest increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. The use of paliperidone should be avoided in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Paliperidone should also be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias. Certain circumstances may increase the risk of the occurrence of Torsades de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval, including (1) bradycardia; (2) hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia; (3) concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval; and (4) presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval. The effects of oral paliperidone on the QT interval were evaluated in a double-blind, active-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg single dose), multicenter QT study in adults with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, and in three placebo- and active-controlled 6-week, fixed-dose efficacy trials in adults with schizophrenia. In the QT study (n=141), the 8 mg dose of immediate-release oral paliperidone (n=50) showed a mean placebo-subtracted increase from baseline in QTcLD of 12.3 msec (90% CI: 8.9; 15.6) on day 8 at 1.5 hours post-dose. The mean steady-state peak plasma concentration for this 8 mg dose of paliperidone immediate release (Cmax ss = 113 ng/mL) was more than 2-fold the exposure observed with the maximum recommended 234 mg dose of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) administered in the deltoid muscle (predicted median Cmax ss = 50 ng/mL). In this same study, a 4 mg dose of the immediate-release oral formulation of paliperidone, for which Cmax ss = 35 ng/mL, showed an increased placebo-subtracted QTcLD of 6.8 msec (90% CI: 3.6; 10.1) on day 2 at 1.5 hours post-dose. In the three fixed-dose efficacy studies of oral paliperidone extended release in subjects with schizophrenia, electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements taken at various time points showed only one subject in the oral paliperidone 12 mg group had a change exceeding 60 msec at one time-point on Day 6 (increase of 62 msec). In the four fixed-dose efficacy studies of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) in subjects with schizophrenia and in the long-term study in subjects with schizoaffective disorder, no subject experienced a change in QTcLD exceeding 60 msec and no subject had a QTcLD value of > 500 msec at any time point. In the maintenance study in subjects with schizophrenia, no subject had a QTcLD change > 60 msec, and one subject had a QTcLD value of 507 msec (Bazett's QT corrected interval [QTcB] value of 483 msec); this latter subject also had a heart rate of 45 beats per minute. 5.5 Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to predict which patients will develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible appear to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase, but the syndrome can develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses, although this is uncommon. There is no known treatment for established tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and may thus mask the underlying process. The effect of symptomatic suppression on the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient treated with INVEGA SUSTENNA(R), drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment with INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) despite the presence of the syndrome. 5.6 Metabolic Changes Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and body weight gain. While all of the drugs in the class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus Hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus, in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, have been reported in patients treated with all atypical antipsychotics. These cases were, for the most part, seen in post-marketing clinical use and epidemiologic studies, not in clinical trials, and there have been few reports of hyperglycemia or diabetes in trial subjects treated with INVEGA SUSTENNA(R). Assessment of the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and glucose abnormalities is complicated by the possibility of an increased background risk of diabetes mellitus in patients with schizophrenia and the increasing incidence of diabetes mellitus in the general population. Given these confounders, the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and hyperglycemia-related adverse reactions is not completely understood. However, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of hyperglycemia-related adverse reactions in patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics. Because INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) was not marketed at the time these studies were performed, it is not known if INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) is associated with this risk. Patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Patients with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes) who are starting treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. Any patient treated with atypical antipsychotics should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the atypical antipsychotic was discontinued; however, some patients required continuation of anti-diabetic treatment despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. Pooled data from the four placebo-controlled (one 9-week and three 13-week), fixed-dose studies in subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 5. Table 5. Change in Fasting Glucose from Four Placebo-Controlled, 9- to 13-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) Placebo 39 mg 78 mg 156 mg 234/39 mgInitial deltoid injection of 234 mg followed by either 39 mg, 156 mg, or 234 mg every 4 weeks by deltoid or gluteal injection. Other dose groups (39 mg, 78 mg, and 156 mg) are from studies involving only gluteal injection. [See Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 234/156 mg 234/234 mg Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=367 n=86 n=244 n=238 n=110 n=126 n=115 Serum Glucose Change from baseline -1.3 1.3 3.5 0.1 3.4 1.8 -0.2 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 4.6% 6.3% 6.4% 3.9% 2.5% 7.0% 6.6% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (11/241) (4/64) (11/173) (6/154) (2/79) (6/86) (5/76) In a long-term open-label pharmacokinetic and safety study in subjects with schizophrenia in which the highest dose available (234 mg) was evaluated, INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) was associated with a mean change in glucose of -0.4 mg/dL at Week 29 (n=109) and +6.8 mg/dL at Week 53 (n=100). During the initial 25-week open-label period of a long-term study in subjects with schizoaffective disorder, INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) was associated with mean change in glucose of +5.3 mg/dL (n=518). At the endpoint of the subsequent 15-month double-blind period of the study, INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) was associated with a mean change in glucose of +0.3 mg/dL (n=131) compared with a mean change of +4.0 mg/dL in the placebo group (n=120). Dyslipidemia Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. Pooled data from the four placebo-controlled (one 9-week and three 13-week), fixed-dose studies in subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 6. Table 6. Change in Fasting Lipids from Four Placebo-Controlled, 9- to 13-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) Placebo 39 mg 78 mg 156 mg 234/39 mgInitial deltoid injection of 234 mg followed by either 39 mg, 156 mg, or 234 mg every 4 weeks by deltoid or gluteal injection. Other dose groups (39 mg, 78 mg, and 156 mg) are from studies involving only gluteal injection. [See Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 234/156 mg 234/234 mg Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=366 n=89 n=244 n=232 n=105 n=119 n=120 Change from baseline -6.6 -6.4 -5.8 -7.1 -0.9 -4.2 9.4 LDL n=275 n=80 n=164 n=141 n=104 n=117 n=108 Change from baseline -6.0 -4.8 -5.6 -4.8 0.9 -2.4 5.2 HDL n=286 n=89 n=165 n=150 n=105 n=118 n=115 Change from baseline 0.7 2.1 0.6 0.3 1.5 1.1 0.0 Triglycerides n=366 n=89 n=244 n=232 n=105 n=119 n=120 Change from baseline -16.7 7.6 -9.0 -11.5 -14.1 -20.0 11.9 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 3.2% 2.0% 2.0% 2.1% 0% 3.1% 7.1% (<200 mg/dL to >=240 mg/dL) (7/222) (1/51) (3/147) (3/141) (0/69) (2/65) (6/84) LDL Normal to High 1.1% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% (<100 mg/dL to >=160 mg/dL) (1/95) (0/29) (0/67) (0/46) (0/41) (0/37) (0/44) HDL Normal to Low 13.8% 14.8% 9.6% 14.2% 12.7% 10.5% 16.0% (>=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (28/203) (9/61) (11/115) (15/106) (9/71) (8/76) (13/81) Triglycerides Normal to High 3.6% 6.1% 9.2% 7.2% 1.3% 3.7% 10.7% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (8/221) (3/49) (14/153) (10/139) (1/79) (3/82) (9/84) In a long-term open-label pharmacokinetic and safety study in subjects with schizophrenia in which the highest dose available (234 mg) was evaluated, the mean changes from baseline in lipid values are presented in Table 7. Table 7. Change in Fasting Lipids from Long-term Open-label Pharmacokinetic and Safety Study in Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) 234 mg Week 29 Week 53 Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=112 n=100 Change from baseline -1.2 0.1 LDL n=107 n=89 Change from baseline -2.7 -2.3 HDL n=112 n=98 Change from baseline -0.8 -2.6 Triglycerides n=112 n=100 Change from baseline 16.2 37.4 The mean changes from baseline in lipid values during the initial 25-week open-label period and at the endpoint of the subsequent 15-month double-blind period in a long-term study in subjects with schizoaffective disorder are presented in Table 8. Table 8. Change in Fasting Lipids from an Open-Label and Double-Blind Periods of a Long-Term Study in Subjects with Schizoaffective Disorder Open-Label Period Double-Blind Period INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) Placebo INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=198 n=119 n=132 Change from baseline -3.9 -4.2 2.3 LDL n=198 n=117 n=130 Change from baseline -2.7 -2.8 5.9 HDL n=198 n=119 n=131 Change from baseline -2.7 -0.9 -0.7 Triglycerides n=198 n=119 n=132 Change from baseline 7.0 2.5 -12.3 Weight Gain Weight gain has been observed with atypical antipsychotic use. Clinical monitoring of weight is recommended. Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight from the four placebo-controlled (one 9-week and three 13-week), fixed-dose studies in subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 9. Table 9. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from Four Placebo-Controlled, 9- to 13-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) Placebo 39 mg 78 mg 156 mg 234/39 mgInitial deltoid injection of 234 mg followed by either 39 mg, 156 mg, or 234 mg every 4 weeks by deltoid or gluteal injection. Other dose groups (39 mg, 78 mg, and 156 mg) are from studies involving only gluteal injection. [See Clinical Studies (14.1)]. 234/156 mg 234/234 mg n=451 n=116 n=280 n=267 n=137 n=144 n=145 Weight (kg) Change from baseline -0.4 0.4 0.8 1.4 0.4 0.7 1.4 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 3.3% 6.0% 8.9% 9.0% 5.8% 8.3% 13.1% In a long-term open-label pharmacokinetic and safety study in which the highest dose available (234 mg) was evaluated, INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) was associated with a mean change in weight of +2.4 kg at Week 29 (n=134) and +4.3 kg at Week 53 (n=113). During the initial 25-week open-label period of a long-term study in subjects with schizoaffective disorder, INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) was associated with a mean change in weight of +2.2 kg and 18.4% of subjects had an increase in body weight of >= 7% (n=653). At the endpoint of the subsequent 15-month double-blind period of the study, INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) was associated with a mean change in weight of -0.2 kg and 13.0% of subjects had an increase in body weight of >= 7% (n=161); the placebo group had a mean change in weight of -0.8 kg and 6.0% of subjects had an increase in body weight of >= 7% (n=168). 5.7 Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Paliperidone can induce orthostatic hypotension and syncope in some patients because of its alpha-blocking activity. Syncope was reported in < 1% (4/1293) of subjects treated with INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) in the recommended dose range of 39 mg to 234 mg in the four fixed-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials compared with 0% (0/510) of subjects treated with placebo. In the four fixed-dose efficacy studies in subjects with schizophrenia, orthostatic hypotension was reported as an adverse event by < 1% (2/1293) of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R)-treated subjects compared to 0% (0/510) with placebo. Incidences of orthostatic hypotension and syncope in the long-term studies in subjects with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder were similar to those observed in the short-term studies. INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, history of myocardial infarction or ischemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension. 5.8 Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis In clinical trial and/or postmarketing experience, events of leukopenia/neutropenia have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents, including INVEGA(R), an oral form of paliperidone. Agranulocytosis has also been reported. Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC) and history of drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low WBC or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1000/mm3) should discontinue INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) and have their WBC followed until recovery. 5.9 Hyperprolactinemia Like other drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, paliperidone elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration. Paliperidone has a prolactin-elevating effect similar to that seen with risperidone, a drug that is associated with higher levels of prolactin than other antipsychotic drugs. Hyperprolactinemia, regardless of etiology, may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence have been reported in patients receiving prolactin-elevating compounds. Long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male subjects. Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin dependent in vitro, a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is considered in a patient with previously detected breast cancer. An increase in the incidence of pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasia (mammary adenocarcinomas, pituitary and pancreatic adenomas) was observed in the risperidone carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date have shown an association between chronic administration of this class of drugs and tumorigenesis in humans, but the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive. 5.10 Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment Somnolence, sedation, and dizziness were reported as adverse reactions in subjects treated with INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Antipsychotics, including INVEGA SUSTENNA(R), have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Patients should be cautioned about performing activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating hazardous machinery or operating a motor vehicle, until they are reasonably certain that paliperidone therapy does not adversely affect them. 5.11 Seizures In the four fixed-dose double-blind placebo-controlled studies in subjects with schizophrenia, <1% (1/1293) of subjects treated with INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) in the recommended dose range of 39 mg to 234 mg experienced an adverse event of convulsion compared with <1% (1/510) of placebo-treated subjects who experienced an adverse event of grand mal convulsion. Like other antipsychotic drugs, INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. 5.12 Dysphagia Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with advanced Alzheimer's dementia. INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration pneumonia. 5.13 Priapism Drugs with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have been reported to induce priapism. Although no cases of priapism have been reported in clinical trials with INVEGA SUSTENNA(R), priapism has been reported with oral paliperidone during postmarketing surveillance. Severe priapism may require surgical intervention. 5.14 Disruption of Body Temperature Regulation Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing INVEGA SUSTENNA(R) to patients who will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Paliperidone&limit=1&skip=2
Page 2 of 11
        "generic_name": [
          "PALIPERIDONE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Paliperidone"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Centrally-acting drugs: Due to CNS effects, use caution in combination. Avoid alcohol. (7.1) Drugs that may cause orthostatic hypotension: An additive effect may be observed when co-administered with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets. (7.1) Strong CYP3A4/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducers: It may be necessary to increase the dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets when a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine) is co-administered. Conversely, on discontinuation of the strong inducer, it may be necessary to decrease the dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets. (7.2) Co-administration of divalproex sodium increased Cmax and AUC of paliperidone by approximately 50%. Adjust dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets if necessary based on clinical assessment. (7.2) 7.1 Potential for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets to Affect Other Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of paliperidone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)], Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Paliperidone may antagonize the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension, an additive effect may be observed when Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes. In vitro studies in human liver microsomes showed that paliperidone does not substantially inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5. Therefore, paliperidone is not expected to inhibit clearance of drugs that are metabolized by these metabolic pathways in a clinically relevant manner. Paliperidone is also not expected to have enzyme inducing properties. Paliperidone is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) at high concentrations. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets is unlikely. In a drug interaction study, co-administration of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (12 mg once daily for 5 days) with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (500 mg to 2000 mg once daily) did not affect the steady-state pharmacokinetics (AUC24h and Cmax,ss) of valproate in 13 patients stabilized on valproate. In a clinical study, subjects on stable doses of valproate had comparable valproate average plasma concentrations when Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 3-15 mg/day were added to their existing valproate treatment. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Paliperidone is not a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, so that an interaction with inhibitors or inducers of these isozymes is unlikely. While in vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone metabolism, in vivo studies do not show decreased elimination by these isozymes and they contribute to only a small fraction of total body clearance. In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate. Co-administration of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 6 mg once daily with carbamazepine, a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp), at 200 mg twice daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone. A minor decrease in the amount of drug excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be re-evaluated and increased if necessary. Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be re-evaluated and decreased if necessary. Paliperidone is metabolized to a limited extent by CYP2D6 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In an interaction study in healthy subjects in which a single 3 mg dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was administered concomitantly with 20 mg per day of paroxetine (a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor), paliperidone exposures were on average 16% (90% CI: 4, 30) higher in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers. Higher doses of paroxetine have not been studied. The clinical relevance is unknown. Co-administration of a single dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 12 mg with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. Dosage reduction for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be considered when Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are co-administered with valproate after clinical assessment. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets is unlikely."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence >= 5% and at least twice that for placebo) were (6) Adults with schizophrenia: extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. Adolescents with schizophrenia: somnolence, akathisia, tremor, dystonia, cogwheel rigidity, anxiety, weight increased, and tachycardia. Adults with schizoaffective disorder: extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Patriot Pharmaceuticals, LLC at 1-800-667-8570 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Overall Adverse Reaction Profile The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cerebrovascular adverse reactions, including stroke, in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Tardive dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Metabolic changes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hyperprolactinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Potential for gastrointestinal obstruction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Orthostatic hypotension and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Potential for cognitive and motor impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Dysphagia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Suicide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)] Disruption of body temperature regulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)] Antiemetic effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18)] Increased sensitivity in patients with Parkinson's disease or those with dementia with Lewy bodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] Diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and at least twice the placebo rate in any of the dose groups) were extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult patients with schizoaffective disorder (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and at least twice the placebo rate) were extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (causing discontinuation in 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects) were nervous system disorders. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder were gastrointestinal disorders, which resulted in discontinuation in 1% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects. [See Adverse Reactions (6.4)]. The safety of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was evaluated in 1205 adult subjects with schizophrenia who participated in three placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials, of whom 850 subjects received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets at fixed doses ranging from 3 mg to 12 mg once daily. The information presented in this section was derived from pooled data from these three trials. Additional safety information from the placebo-controlled phase of the long-term maintenance study, in which subjects received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets at daily doses within the range of 3 mg to 15 mg (n=104), is also included. The safety of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was evaluated in 150 adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia who received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in the dose range of 1.5 mg to 12 mg/day in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The safety of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was also evaluated in 622 adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder who participated in two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials. In one of these trials, 206 subjects were assigned to one of two dose levels of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets: 6 mg with the option to reduce to 3 mg (n = 108) or 12 mg with the option to reduce to 9 mg (n = 98) once daily. In the other study, 214 subjects received flexible doses of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (3-12 mg once daily). Both studies included subjects who received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets either as monotherapy or as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Adverse events during exposure to study treatment were obtained by general inquiry and recorded by clinical investigators using their own terminology. Consequently, to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse events, events were grouped in standardized categories using MedDRA terminology. Throughout this section, adverse reactions are reported. Adverse reactions are adverse events that were considered to be reasonably associated with the use of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (adverse drug reactions) based on the comprehensive assessment of the available adverse event information. A causal association for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets often cannot be reliably established in individual cases. Further, because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. 6.2 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizophrenia in Adults and Adolescents Adult Patients with Schizophrenia Table 4 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 4. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia in Three Short-Term, Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from three studies; one study included once-daily Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets doses of 3 mg and 9 mg, the second study included 6 mg, 9 mg, and 12 mg, and the third study included 6 mg and 12 mg [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, oculogyration, parkinsonism, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Adverse reactions for which the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets incidence was equal to or less than placebo are not listed in the table, but included the following: vomiting. Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 37 48 47 53 59 Cardiac disorders Atrioventricular block first degree 1 2 0 2 1 Bundle branch block 2 3 1 3 <1 Sinus arrhythmia 0 2 1 1 <1 Tachycardia 7 14 12 12 14 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal pain upper 1 1 3 2 2 Dry mouth 1 2 3 1 3 Salivary hypersecretion <1 0 <1 1 4 General disorders Asthenia 1 2 <1 2 2 Fatigue 1 2 1 2 2 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 3 8 10 Dizziness 4 6 5 4 5 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 10 7 20 18 Headache 12 11 12 14 14 Somnolence 7 6 9 10 11 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotension 1 2 1 2 4 Adolescent Patients with Schizophrenia Table 5 lists the adverse reactions reported in a fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 5. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Adolescent Subjects with Schizophrenia in a Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms oculogyric crisis, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, nuchal rigidity, torticollis, trismus, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle contractions involuntary, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, tremor, and restlessness. Somnolence includes the terms somnolence, sedation, and hypersomnia. Insomnia includes the terms insomnia and initial insomnia. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Hypertension includes the terms hypertension and blood pressure increased. Gynecomastia includes the terms gynecomastia and breast swelling. Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg once daily 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 43 37 50 58 74 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 0 0 6 9 6 Eye disorders Vision blurred 0 0 0 0 3 Gastrointestinal disorders Dry mouth 2 0 0 0 3 Salivary hypersecretion 0 2 6 2 0 Swollen tongue 0 0 0 0 3 Vomiting 10 0 6 11 3 General disorders Asthenia 0 0 0 2 3 Fatigue 0 4 0 2 3 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 2 4 0 4 0 Investigations Weight increased 0 7 6 2 3 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 0 4 6 11 17 Dizziness 0 2 6 2 3 Extrapyramidal symptoms 0 4 19 18 23 Headache 4 9 6 4 14 Lethargy 0 0 0 0 3 Somnolence 4 9 13 20 26 Tongue paralysis 0 0 0 0 3 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 4 0 0 2 9 Reproductive system and breast disorders Amenorrhea 0 0 6 0 0 Galactorrhea 0 0 0 4 0 Gynecomastia 0 0 0 0 3 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Epistaxis 0 0 0 2 0 6.3 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizoaffective Disorder in Adults Table 6 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and for which the incidence in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 6. Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizoaffective Disorder in Two Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from two studies. One study included once-daily Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets doses of 6 mg (with the option to reduce to 3 mg) and 12 mg (with the option to reduce to 9 mg). The second study included flexible once-daily doses of 3 to 12 mg. Among the 420 subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, 230 (55%) received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as monotherapy and 190 (45%) received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms bradykinesia, drooling, dyskinesia, dystonia, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle twitching, oculogyration, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, restlessness, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Percentage of Patients Placebo Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose Body System or Organ Class (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 32 48 50 43 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 2 3 1 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal discomfort/Abdominal pain upper 1 1 0 3 Constipation 2 4 5 4 Dyspepsia 2 5 6 6 Nausea 6 8 8 5 Stomach discomfort 1 0 1 2 General disorders Asthenia 1 3 4 <1 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 2 5 3 Rhinitis 0 1 3 1 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 2 2 2 Investigations Weight increased 1 5 4 4 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite <1 1 0 2 Increased appetite <1 3 2 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 1 1 1 3 Myalgia <1 2 4 1 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 6 6 Dysarthria 0 1 4 2 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 20 17 12 Somnolence 5 12 12 8 Psychiatric disorders Sleep disorder <1 2 3 0 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 1 3 1 Pharyngolaryngeal pain <1 0 2 1 Monotherapy versus Adjunctive Therapy The designs of the two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder included the option for subjects to receive antidepressants (except monoamine oxidase inhibitors) and/or mood stabilizers (lithium, valproate, or lamotrigine). In the subject population evaluated for safety, 230 (55%) subjects received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as monotherapy and 190 (45%) subjects received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. When comparing these 2 subpopulations, only nausea occurred at a greater frequency (>= 3% difference) in subjects receiving Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as monotherapy. 6.4 Discontinuations Due to Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the three schizophrenia placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults were 3% and 1% in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were nervous system disorders (2% and 0% in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). Among the adverse reactions in the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, only dystonia led to discontinuation (<1% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects). Schizoaffective Disorder Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the two schizoaffective disorder placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adults were 1% and <1% in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were gastrointestinal disorders (1% and 0% in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). 6.5 Dose-Related Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials Based on the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with a greater than 2% incidence in the subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, akathisia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, parkinsonism, and salivary hypersecretion. For most of these, the increased incidence was seen primarily at the 12 mg dose, and, in some cases, the 9 mg dose. In the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with >2% incidence in the subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: tachycardia, akathisia, extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, and headache. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In a placebo-controlled, 6-week, high- and low-dose study in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, akathisia, dystonia, dysarthria, myalgia, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, cough, and pharyngolaryngeal pain occurred more frequently (i.e., a difference of at least 2%) in subjects who received higher doses of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets compared with subjects who received lower doses. 6.6 Demographic Differences An examination of population subgroups in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and in the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder did not reveal any evidence of clinically relevant differences in safety on the basis of gender or race alone; there was also no difference on the basis of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. 6.7 Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia provided information regarding treatment-emergent EPS. Several methods were used to measure EPS: (1) the Simpson-Angus global score (mean change from baseline) which broadly evaluates Parkinsonism, (2) the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global clinical rating score (mean change from baseline) which evaluates akathisia, (3) use of anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS (Table 7), and (4) incidence of spontaneous reports of EPS (Table 8). For the Simpson-Angus Scale, spontaneous EPS reports and use of anticholinergic medications, there was a dose-related increase observed for the 9 mg and 12 mg doses. There was no difference observed between placebo and Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 3 mg and 6 mg doses for any of these EPS measures. Table 7. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Assessed by Incidence of Ratings Scales and Use of Anticholinergic Medication - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) ParkinsonismFor Parkinsonism, percent of patients with Simpson-Angus global score > 0.3 (Global score defined as total sum of items score divided by the number of items) 9 11 3 15 14 AkathisiaFor Akathisia, percent of patients with Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global score >= 2 6 6 4 7 9 Use of anticholinergic medicationsPercent of patients who received anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS 10 10 9 22 22 Table 8. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle twitching, tardive dyskinesia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration, trismus Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, drooling, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 13 10 25 26 Dyskinesia 3 5 3 8 9 Dystonia 1 1 1 5 5 Hyperkinesia 4 4 3 8 10 Parkinsonism 2 3 3 7 6 Tremor 3 3 3 4 3 Compared to data from the studies in adults subjects with schizophrenia, pooled data from the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder showed similar types and frequencies of EPS as measured by rating scales, anticholinergic medication use, and spontaneous reports of EPS-related adverse events. For subjects with schizoaffective disorder, there was no dose-related increase in EPS observed for parkinsonism with the Simpson-Angus scale or akathisia with the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale. There was a dose-related increase observed with spontaneous EPS reports of hyperkinesia and dystonia and in the use of anticholinergic medications. Table 9 shows the EPS data from the pooled schizoaffective disorder trials. Table 9. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizoaffective Disorder Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose EPS Group (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle twitching Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia, restlessness Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, drooling, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle tightness, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 23 22 17 Dyskinesia 1 3 1 1 Dystonia 1 2 3 2 Hyperkinesia 5 5 8 7 Parkinsonism 3 14 7 7 Tremor 3 12 11 5 The incidences of EPS-related adverse events in the adolescent schizophrenia studies showed a similar dose-related pattern to those in the adult studies. There were notably higher incidences of dystonia, hyperkinesia, tremor, and parkinsonism in the adolescent population as compared to the adult studies (Table 10). Table 10. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adolescent Subjects Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg once daily 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle contracture, oculogyric crisis, tongue paralysis, torticollis Tremor group includes: Tremor Parkinsonism group includes: Cogwheel rigidity, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle rigidity Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle contractions involuntary Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 0 6 25 22 40 Hyperkinesia 0 4 6 11 17 Dystonia 0 2 0 11 14 Tremor 0 2 6 7 11 Parkinsonism 0 0 6 2 14 Dyskinesia 0 2 6 2 6 Dystonia Class Effect: Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. 6.8 Laboratory Test Abnormalities In the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, between-group comparisons revealed no medically important differences between Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and placebo in the proportions of subjects experiencing potentially clinically significant changes in routine serum chemistry, hematology, or urinalysis parameters. Similarly, there were no differences between Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and placebo in the incidence of discontinuations due to changes in hematology, urinalysis, or serum chemistry, including mean changes from baseline in fasting glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglyceride, HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol measurements. However, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were associated with increases in serum prolactin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 6.9 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During Premarketing Evaluation of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets The following additional adverse reactions occurred in < 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects in the above schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder clinical trial datasets. The following also includes additional adverse reactions reported at any frequency by Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects who participated in other clinical studies. Cardiac disorders: bradycardia, palpitations Eye disorders: eye movement disorder Gastrointestinal disorders: flatulence General disorders: edema Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reaction Infections and infestations: urinary tract infection Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, pain in extremity Nervous system disorders: opisthotonus Psychiatric disorders: agitation, insomnia, nightmare Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast discomfort, menstruation irregular, retrograde ejaculation Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: nasal congestion Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: pruritus, rash Vascular disorders: hypertension The safety of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was also evaluated in a long-term trial designed to assess the maintenance of effect with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in adults with schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14)]. In general, adverse reaction types, frequencies, and severities during the initial 14-week open-label phase of this study were comparable to those observed in the 6-week, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose studies. Adverse reactions reported during the long-term double-blind phase of this study were similar in type and severity to those observed in the initial 14-week open-label phase. 6.10 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets; because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency: angioedema, ileus, priapism, swollen tongue, tardive dyskinesia, urinary incontinence, urinary retention. 6.11 Adverse Reactions Reported With Risperidone Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone. Adverse reactions reported with risperidone can be found in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section of the risperidone package insert."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions: An increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (e.g. stroke, transient ischemic attack, including fatalities) has been seen in elderly patients with dementia- related psychoses treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.2) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: Manage with immediate discontinuation of drug and close monitoring. (5.3) QT Prolongation: Increase in QT interval, avoid use with drugs that also increase QT interval and in patients with risk factors for prolonged QT interval. (5.4) Tardive Dyskinesia: Discontinue drug if clinically appropriate. (5.5) Metabolic Changes: Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/ cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and weight gain. (5.6) Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus: Monitor patients for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Monitor glucose regularly in patients with diabetes or at risk for diabetes. (5.6) Dyslipidemia: Undesirable alterations have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.6) Weight Gain: Significant weight gain has been reported. Monitor weight gain. (5.6) Hyperprolactinemia: Prolactin elevations occur and persist during chronic administration. (5.7) Gastrointestinal Narrowing: Obstructive symptoms may result in patients with gastrointestinal disease. (5.8) Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope: Use with caution in patients with known cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease and patients predisposed to hypotension. (5.9) Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis: has been reported with antipsychotics, including paliperidone. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. (5.10) Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment: Use caution when operating machinery. (5.11) Seizures: Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold. (5.12) Suicide: Closely supervise high-risk patients. (5.14) 5.1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients With Dementia-Related Psychosis In placebo-controlled trials with risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine in elderly subjects with dementia, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks) including fatalities compared to placebo-treated subjects. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were not marketed at the time these studies were performed. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see also Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs, including paliperidone. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases in which the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system pathology. The management of NMS should include: (1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy; (2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring; and (3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient appears to require antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, reintroduction of drug therapy should be closely monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. 5.4 QT Prolongation Paliperidone causes a modest increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. The use of paliperidone should be avoided in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Paliperidone should also be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias. Certain circumstances may increase the risk of the occurrence of torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval, including (1) bradycardia; (2) hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia; (3) concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval; and (4) presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval. The effects of paliperidone on the QT interval were evaluated in a double-blind, active-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg single dose), multicenter QT study in adults with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, and in three placebo- and active-controlled 6-week, fixed-dose efficacy trials in adults with schizophrenia. In the QT study (n = 141), the 8 mg dose of immediate-release oral paliperidone (n=50) showed a mean placebo-subtracted increase from baseline in QTcLD of 12.3 msec (90% CI: 8.9; 15.6) on day 8 at 1.5 hours post-dose. The mean steady-state peak plasma concentration for this 8 mg dose of paliperidone immediate-release was more than twice the exposure observed with the maximum recommended 12 mg dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (Cmax ss = 113 ng/mL and 45 ng/mL, respectively, when administered with a standard breakfast). In this same study, a 4 mg dose of the immediate-release oral formulation of paliperidone, for which Cmax ss = 35 ng/mL, showed an increased placebo-subtracted QTcLD of 6.8 msec (90% CI: 3.6; 10.1) on day 2 at 1.5 hours post-dose. None of the subjects had a change exceeding 60 msec or a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time during this study. For the three fixed-dose efficacy studies in subjects with schizophrenia, electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements taken at various time points showed only one subject in the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 12 mg group had a change exceeding 60 msec at one time-point on Day 6 (increase of 62 msec). No subject receiving Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets had a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time in any of these three studies. 5.5 Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to predict which patients will develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible appear to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase, but the syndrome can develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses, although this is uncommon. There is no known treatment for established tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and may thus mask the underlying process. The effect of symptomatic suppression on the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets despite the presence of the syndrome. 5.6 Metabolic Changes Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and body weight gain. While all of the drugs in the class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus Hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus, in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, have been reported in patients treated with all atypical antipsychotics. These cases were, for the most part, seen in post-marketing clinical use and epidemiologic studies, not in clinical trials, and there have been few reports of hyperglycemia or diabetes in trial subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets. Assessment of the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and glucose abnormalities is complicated by the possibility of an increased background risk of diabetes mellitus in patients with schizophrenia and the increasing incidence of diabetes mellitus in the general population. Given these confounders, the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and hyperglycemia-related adverse events is not completely understood. However, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of treatment-emergent hyperglycemia-related adverse events in patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics. Because Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were not marketed at the time these studies were performed, it is not known if Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are associated with this increased risk. Patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Patients with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes) who are starting treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. Any patient treated with atypical antipsychotics should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the atypical antipsychotic was discontinued; however, some patients required continuation of anti-diabetic treatment despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1a. Table 1a. Change in Fasting Glucose from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=322 n=122 n=212 n=234 n=218 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -0.7 0.4 2.3 4.3 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 5.1% 3.2% 4.5% 4.8% 3.8% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (12/236) (3/93) (7/156) (9/187) (6/157) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were associated with a mean change in glucose of +3.3 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=570) and +4.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=314). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1b. Table 1b. Change in Fasting Glucose from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=41 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -1.4 -1.8 -0.1 5.2 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 3% 0% 0% 0% 11% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (1/32) (0/34) (0/9) (0/20) (3/27) Dyslipidemia Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2a. Table 2a. Change in Fasting Lipids from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=331 n=120 n=216 n=236 n=231 Change from baseline -6.3 -4.4 -2.4 -5.3 -4.0 LDL n=322 n=116 n=210 n=231 n=225 Change from baseline -3.2 0.5 -0.8 -3.9 -2.0 HDL n=331 n=119 n=216 n=234 n=230 Change from baseline 0.3 -0.4 0.5 0.8 1.2 Triglycerides n=331 n=120 n=216 n=236 n=231 Change from baseline -22.3 -18.3 -12.6 -10.6 -15.4 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 2.6% 2.8% 5.6% 4.1% 3.1% (<200 mg/dL to >=240 mg/dL) (5/194) (2/71) (7/125) (6/147) (4/130) LDL Normal to High 1.9% 0.0% 5.0% 3.7% 0.0% (<100 mg/dL to >=160 mg/dL) (2/105) (0/44) (3/60) (3/81) (0/69) HDL Normal to Low 22.0% 16.3% 29.1% 23.4% 20.0% ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (44/200) (13/80) (39/134) (32/137) (27/135) Triglycerides Normal to High 5.3% 11.0% 8.8% 8.7% 4.3% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (11/208) (9/82) (12/136) (13/150) (6/139) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were associated with a mean change in (a) total cholesterol of -1.5 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -1.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317), (b) triglycerides of -6.4 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -10.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317); (c) LDL of -1.9 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=557) and -2.7 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=297); and (d) HDL of +2.2 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=568) and +3.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=302). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2b. Table 2b. Change in Fasting Lipids from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=39 n=45 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -7.8 -3.3 12.7 3.0 -1.5 LDL n=37 n=40 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -4.1 -3.1 7.2 2.4 0.6 HDL n=37 n=41 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -1.9 0.0 1.3 1.4 0.0 Triglycerides n=39 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -8.9 3.2 17.6 -5.4 3.9 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 7% 4% 0% 6% 11% (<170 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (2/27) (1/26) (0/6) (1/18) (2/19) LDL Normal to High 3% 4% 14% 0% 9% (<110 mg/dL to >=130 mg/dL) (1/32) (1/25) (1/7) (0/22) (2/22) HDL Normal to Low 14% 7% 29% 13% 23% ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (4/28) (2/30) (2/7) (3/23) (5/22) Triglycerides Normal to High 3% 5% 13% 8% 7% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (1/34) (2/38) (1/8) (2/26) (2/28) Weight Gain Weight gain has been observed with atypical antipsychotic use. Clinical monitoring of weight is recommended. Schizophrenia Trials Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects are presented in Table 3a. Table 3a. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day n=323 n=112 n=215 n=235 n=218 Weight (kg) Change from baseline -0.4 0.6 0.6 1.0 1.1 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 5% 7% 6% 9% 9% In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were associated with a mean change in weight of +1.4 kg at Week 24 (n=63) and +2.6 kg at Week 52 (n=302). Weight gain in adolescent subjects with schizophrenia was assessed in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study and an open-label extension with a median duration of exposure to Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets of 182 days. Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) are presented in Table 3b. Table 3b. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day n=51 n=54 n=16 n=45 n=34 Weight (kg) Change from baseline 0.0 0.3 0.8 1.2 1.5 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 2% 6% 19% 7% 18% In the open-label long-term study the proportion of total subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets with an increase in body weight of >= 7% from baseline was 33%. When treating adolescent patients with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, weight gain should be assessed against that expected with normal growth. When taking into consideration the median duration of exposure to Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in the open-label study (182 days) along with expected normal growth in this population based on age and gender, an assessment of standardized scores relative to normative data provides a more clinically relevant measure of changes in weight. The mean change from open-label baseline to endpoint in standardized score for weight was 0.1 (4% above the median for normative data). Based on comparison to the normative data, these changes are not considered to be clinically significant. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In the pooled data from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, a higher percentage of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects (5%) had an increase in body weight of >= 7% compared with placebo-treated subjects (1%). In the study that examined high- and low-dose groups, the increase in body weight of >= 7% was 3% in the low-dose group, 7% in the high-dose group, and 1% in the placebo group. 5.7 Hyperprolactinemia Like other drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, paliperidone elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration. Paliperidone has a prolactin-elevating effect similar to that seen with risperidone, a drug that is associated with higher levels of prolactin than other antipsychotic drugs. Hyperprolactinemia, regardless of etiology, may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence have been reported in patients receiving prolactin-elevating compounds. Long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male subjects. Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin dependent in vitro, a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is considered in a patient with previously detected breast cancer. An increase in the incidence of pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasia (mammary adenocarcinomas, pituitary and pancreatic adenomas) was observed in the risperidone carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date have shown an association between chronic administration of this class of drugs and tumorigenesis in humans, but the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive. 5.8 Potential for Gastrointestinal Obstruction Because Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are non-deformable and do not appreciably change in shape in the gastrointestinal tract, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should ordinarily not be administered to patients with pre-existing severe gastrointestinal narrowing (pathologic or iatrogenic, for example: esophageal motility disorders, small bowel inflammatory disease, \"short gut\" syndrome due to adhesions or decreased transit time, past history of peritonitis, cystic fibrosis, chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, or Meckel's diverticulum). There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of drugs in non-deformable controlled-release formulations. Because of the controlled-release design of the tablet, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should only be used in patients who are able to swallow the tablet whole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Patient Counseling Information (17.8)]. A decrease in transit time, e.g., as seen with diarrhea, would be expected to decrease bioavailability and an increase in transit time, e.g., as seen with gastrointestinal neuropathy, diabetic gastroparesis, or other causes, would be expected to increase bioavailability. These changes in bioavailability are more likely when the changes in transit time occur in the upper GI tract. 5.9 Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Paliperidone can induce orthostatic hypotension and syncope in some patients because of its alpha-blocking activity. In pooled results of the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose trials in subjects with schizophrenia, syncope was reported in 0.8% (7/850) of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) compared to 0.3% (1/355) of subjects treated with placebo. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, history of myocardial infarction or ischemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension. 5.10 Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis Class Effect: In clinical trial and/or postmarketing experience, events of leukopenia/neutropenia have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents, including Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets. Agranulocytosis has also been reported. Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC) and history of drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low WBC or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1000/mm3) should discontinue Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and have their WBC followed until recovery. 5.11 Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment Somnolence was reported in subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)]. Antipsychotics, including Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Patients should be cautioned about performing activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating hazardous machinery or operating a motor vehicle, until they are reasonably certain that paliperidone therapy does not adversely affect them. 5.12 Seizures During premarketing clinical trials in subjects with schizophrenia (the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies and a study conducted in elderly schizophrenic subjects), seizures occurred in 0.22% of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) and 0.25% of subjects treated with placebo. Like other antipsychotic drugs, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. 5.13 Dysphagia Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with advanced Alzheimer's dementia. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration pneumonia. 5.14 Suicide The possibility of suicide attempt is inherent in psychotic illnesses, and close supervision of high-risk patients should accompany drug therapy. Prescriptions for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose. 5.15 Priapism Drugs with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have been reported to induce priapism. Priapism has been reported with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets during postmarketing surveillance. Severe priapism may require surgical intervention. 5.16 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) No cases of TTP were observed during clinical studies with paliperidone. Although cases of TTP have been reported in association with risperidone administration, the relationship to risperidone therapy is unknown. 5.17 Body Temperature Regulation Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets to patients who will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration. 5.18 Antiemetic Effect An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain drugs or of conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye's syndrome, and brain tumor. 5.19 Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness Clinical experience with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in patients with certain concomitant illnesses is limited [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies are reported to have an increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medication. Manifestations of this increased sensitivity include confusion, obtundation, postural instability with frequent falls, extrapyramidal symptoms, and clinical features consistent with the neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets have not been evaluated or used to any appreciable extent in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable heart disease. Patients with these diagnoses were excluded from premarketing clinical trials. Because of the risk of orthostatic hypotension with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, caution should be observed in patients with known cardiovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. 5.20 Monitoring: Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are recommended."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Paliperidone&limit=1&skip=3
Page 3 of 11
        "generic_name": [
          "PALIPERIDONE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Paliperidone"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Centrally-acting drugs: Due to CNS effects, use caution in combination. Avoid alcohol. (7.1) Drugs that may cause orthostatic hypotension: An additive effect may be observed when co-administered with paliperidone. (7.1) Strong CYP3A4/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducers: It may be necessary to increase the dose of paliperidone when a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine) is co-administered. Conversely, on discontinuation of the strong inducer, it may be necessary to decrease the dose of paliperidone. (7.2) Co-administration of divalproex sodium increased Cmax and AUC of paliperidone by approximately 50%. Adjust dose of paliperidone extended-release tablets if necessary based on clinical assessment. (7.2) 7.1 Potential for Paliperidone to Affect Other Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of paliperidone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)], paliperidone should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Paliperidone may antagonize the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension, an additive effect may be observed when paliperidone is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes. In vitro studies in human liver microsomes showed that paliperidone does not substantially inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5. Therefore, paliperidone is not expected to inhibit clearance of drugs that are metabolized by these metabolic pathways in a clinically relevant manner. Paliperidone is also not expected to have enzyme inducing properties. Paliperidone is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) at high concentrations. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and paliperidone is unlikely. In a drug interaction study, co-administration of paliperidone (12 mg once daily for 5 days) with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (500 mg to 2000 mg once daily) did not affect the steady-state pharmacokinetics (AUC24h and Cmax,ss) of valproate in 13 patients stabilized on valproate. In a clinical study, subjects on stable doses of valproate had comparable valproate average plasma concentrations when paliperidone 3 to 15 mg/day was added to their existing valproate treatment. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Paliperidone Paliperidone is not a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, so that an interaction with inhibitors or inducers of these isozymes is unlikely. While in vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone metabolism, in vivo studies do not show decreased elimination by these isozymes and they contribute to only a small fraction of total body clearance. In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate. Co-administration of Paliperidone 6 mg once daily with carbamazepine, a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp), at 200 mg twice daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone. A minor decrease in the amount of drug excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of paliperidone should be re-evaluated and increased if necessary. Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of paliperidone should be re-evaluated and decreased if necessary. Paliperidone is metabolized to a limited extent by CYP2D6 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In an interaction study in healthy subjects in which a single 3 mg dose of paliperidone was administered concomitantly with 20 mg per day of paroxetine (a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor), paliperidone exposures were on average 16% (90% CI: 4, 30) higher in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers. Higher doses of paroxetine have not been studied. The clinical relevance is unknown. Co-administration of a single dose of paliperidone 12 mg with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. Dosage reduction for paliperidone should be considered when paliperidone is co-administered with valproate after clinical assessment. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and paliperidone is unlikely."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence >= 5% and at least twice that for placebo) were (6) Adults with schizophrenia: extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. Adolescents with schizophrenia: somnolence, akathisia, tremor, dystonia, cogwheel rigidity, anxiety, weight increased, and tachycardia. Adults with schizoaffective disorder: extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Actavis at 1-800-272-5525 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Overall Adverse Reaction Profile The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cerebrovascular adverse reactions, including stroke, in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Tardive dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Metabolic changes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hyperprolactinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Potential for gastrointestinal obstruction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Orthostatic hypotension and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Potential for cognitive and motor impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12 )] Dysphagia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Suicide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)] Disruption of body temperature regulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)] Antiemetic effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18)] Increased sensitivity in patients with Parkinson's disease or those with dementia with Lewy bodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] Diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.19 )] The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with paliperidone and at least twice the placebo rate in any of the dose groups) were extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult patients with schizoaffective disorder (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with paliperidone and at least twice the placebo rate) were extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (causing discontinuation in 2% of paliperidone-treated subjects) were nervous system disorders. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder were gastrointestinal disorders, which resulted in discontinuation in 1% of paliperidone-treated subjects. [See Adverse Reactions (6.4)]. The safety of paliperidone was evaluated in 1205 adult subjects with schizophrenia who participated in three placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials, of whom 850 subjects received paliperidone at fixed doses ranging from 3 mg to 12 mg once daily. The information presented in this section was derived from pooled data from these three trials. Additional safety information from the placebo-controlled phase of the long-term maintenance study, in which subjects received paliperidone at daily doses within the range of 3 mg to 15 mg (n=104), is also included. The safety of paliperidone was evaluated in 150 adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia who received paliperidone in the dose range of 1.5 mg to 12 mg/day in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The safety of paliperidone was also evaluated in 622 adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder who participated in two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials. In one of these trials, 206 subjects were assigned to one of two dose levels of paliperidone: 6 mg with the option to reduce to 3 mg (n = 108) or 12 mg with the option to reduce to 9 mg (n = 98) once daily. In the other study, 214 subjects received flexible doses of paliperidone (3 to 12 mg once daily). Both studies included subjects who received paliperidone either as monotherapy or as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Adverse events during exposure to study treatment were obtained by general inquiry and recorded by clinical investigators using their own terminology. Consequently, to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse events, events were grouped in standardized categories using MedDRA terminology. Throughout this section, adverse reactions are reported. Adverse reactions are adverse events that were considered to be reasonably associated with the use of paliperidone (adverse drug reactions) based on the comprehensive assessment of the available adverse event information. A causal association for paliperidone often cannot be reliably established in individual cases. Further, because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. 6.2 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizophrenia in Adults and Adolescents Adult Patients with Schizophrenia Table 4 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with paliperidone in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in paliperidone-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 4. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia in Three Short-Term, Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials * Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class Dictionary-Derived Term (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 37 48 47 53 59 Cardiac disorders Atrioventricular block first degree 1 2 0 2 1 Bundle branch block 2 3 1 3 <1 Sinus arrhythmia 0 2 1 1 <1 Tachycardia 7 14 12 12 14 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal pain upper 1 1 3 2 2 Dry mouth 1 2 3 1 3 Salivary hypersecretion <1 0 <1 1 4 General disorders Asthenia 1 2 <1 2 2 Fatigue 1 2 1 2 2 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 3 8 10 Dizziness 4 6 5 4 5 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 10 7 20 18 Headache 12 11 12 14 14 Somnolence 7 6 9 10 11 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotension 1 2 1 2 4 *Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the paliperidone dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from three studies; one study included once-daily paliperidone doses of 3 mg and 9 mg, the second study included 6 mg, 9 mg, and 12 mg, and the third study included 6 mg and 12 mg [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, oculogyration, parkinsonism, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Adverse reactions for which the paliperidone incidence was equal to or less than placebo are not listed in the table, but included the following: vomiting. Adolescent Patients with Schizophrenia Table 5 lists the adverse reactions reported in a fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescent subjects 12 to 17 years of age with schizophrenia, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with paliperidone in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in paliperidone-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 5. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone-Treated Adolescent Subjects with Schizophrenia in Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial * Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class Dictionary-Derived Term (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 43 37 50 58 74 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 0 0 6 9 6 Eye disorders Vision blurred 0 0 0 0 3 Gastrointestinal disorders Dry mouth 2 0 0 0 3 Salivary hypersecretion 0 2 6 2 0 Swollen tongue 0 0 0 0 3 Vomiting 10 0 6 11 3 General disorders Asthenia 0 0 0 2 3 Fatigue 0 4 0 2 3 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 2 4 0 4 0 Investigations Weight increased 0 7 6 2 3 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 0 4 6 11 17 Dizziness 0 2 6 2 3 Extrapyramidal symptoms 0 4 19 18 23 Headache 4 9 6 4 14 Lethargy 0 0 0 0 3 Somnolence 4 9 13 20 26 Tongue paralysis 0 0 0 0 3 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 4 0 0 2 9 Reproductive system and breast disorders Amenorrhea 0 0 6 0 0 Galactorrhea 0 0 0 4 0 Gybecomastia 0 0 0 0 3 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Epistaxis 0 0 0 2 0 * Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the paliperidone dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms oculogyric crisis, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, nuchal rigidity, torticollis, trismus, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle contractions involuntary, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, tremor, and restlessness. Somnolence includes the terms somnolence, sedation, and hypersomnia. Insomnia includes the terms insomnia and initial insomnia. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Hypertension includes the terms hypertension and blood pressure increased. Gynecomastia includes the terms gynecomastia and breast swelling. 6.3 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizoaffective Disorder in Adults Table 6 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with paliperidone and for which the incidence in paliperidone-treated subjects was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 6. Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizoaffective Disorder in Two Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials* Percent of Patients Paliperidone Paliperidone Paliperidone Placebo 3 to 6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 9 to 12 mg once daily fixed-dose range 3 to 12 mg once daily fixed-dose range Body System or Organ Class Dictionary-Derived Term (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 32 48 50 43 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 2 3 1 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal discomfort/Abdominal pain upper 1 1 0 3 Constipation 2 4 5 4 Dyspepsia 2 5 6 6 Nausea 6 8 8 5 Stomach discomfort 1 0 1 2 General disorders Asthenia 1 3 4 <1 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 2 5 3 Rhinitis 0 1 3 1 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 2 2 2 Investigations Weight increased 1 5 4 4 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite <1 1 0 2 Increased appetite <1 3 2 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 1 1 1 3 Myalgia <1 2 4 1 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 6 6 Dysarthria 0 1 4 2 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 20 17 12 Somnolence 5 12 12 8 Psychiatric disorders Sleep disorder <1 2 3 0 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 1 3 1 Pharyngolaryngeal pain <1 0 2 1 *Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the paliperidone dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from two studies. One study included once-daily paliperidone doses of 6 mg (with the option to reduce to 3 mg) and 12 mg (with the option to reduce to 9 mg). The second study included flexible once-daily doses of 3 to 12 mg. Among the 420 subjects treated with paliperidone, 230 (55%) received paliperidone as monotherapy and 190 (45%) received paliperidone as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms bradykinesia, drooling, dyskinesia, dystonia, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle twitching, oculogyration, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, restlessness, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Monotherapy versus Adjunctive Therapy The designs of the two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder included the option for subjects to receive antidepressants (except monoamine oxidase inhibitors) and/or mood stabilizers (lithium, valproate, or lamotrigine). In the subject population evaluated for safety, 230 (55%) subjects received paliperidone as monotherapy and 190 (45%) subjects received paliperidone as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. When comparing these 2 subpopulations, only nausea occurred at a greater frequency (>= 3% difference) in subjects receiving paliperidone as monotherapy. 6.4 Discontinuations Due to Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the three schizophrenia placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults were 3% and 1% in paliperidone- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were nervous system disorders (2% and 0% in paliperidone- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). Among the adverse reactions in the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, only dystonia led to discontinuation (<1% of paliperidone-treated subjects). Schizoaffective Disorder Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the two schizoaffective disorder placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adults were 1% and <1% in paliperidone - and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were gastrointestinal disorders (1% and 0% in paliperidone - and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). 6.5 Dose-Related Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials Based on the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with a greater than 2% incidence in the subjects treated with paliperidone, the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, akathisia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, parkinsonism, and salivary hypersecretion. For most of these, the increased incidence was seen primarily at the 12 mg dose, and, in some cases, the 9 mg dose. In the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with >2% incidence in the subjects treated with paliperidone, the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: tachycardia, akathisia, extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, and headache. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In a placebo-controlled, 6-week, high- and low-dose study in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, akathisia, dystonia, dysarthria, myalgia, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, cough, and pharyngolaryngeal pain occurred more frequently (i.e., a difference of at least 2%) in subjects who received higher doses of paliperidone compared with subjects who received lower doses. 6.6 Demographic Differences An examination of population subgroups in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and in the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder did not reveal any evidence of clinically relevant differences in safety on the basis of gender or race alone; there was also no difference on the basis of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. 6.7 Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia provided information regarding treatment-emergent EPS. Several methods were used to measure EPS: (1) the Simpson-Angus global score (mean change from baseline) which broadly evaluates Parkinsonism, (2) the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global clinical rating score (mean change from baseline) which evaluates akathisia, (3) use of anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS (Table 7), and (4) incidence of spontaneous reports of EPS (Table 8). For the Simpson-Angus Scale, spontaneous EPS reports and use of anticholinergic medications, there was a dose-related increase observed for the 9 mg and 12 mg doses. There was no difference observed between placebo and paliperidone 3 mg and 6 mg doses for any of these EPS measures. Table 7. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Assessed by Incidence of Ratings Scales and Use of Anticholinergic Medication-Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Parkinsonisma 9 11 3 15 14 Akathisiab 6 6 4 7 9 Use of anticholinergic medicationsc 10 10 9 22 22 a For Parkinsonism, percent of patients with Simpson-Angus global score > 0.3 (Global score defined as total sum of items score divided by the number of items) b For Akathisia, percent of patients with Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global score >= 2 c Percent of patients who received anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS Table 8. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 13 10 25 26 Dyskinesia 3 5 3 8 9 Dystonia 1 1 1 5 5 Hyperkinesia 4 4 3 8 10 Parkinsonism 2 3 3 7 6 Tremor 3 3 3 4 3 Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle twitching, tardive dyskinesia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration, trismus Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, drooling, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Compared to data from the studies in adults subjects with schizophrenia, pooled data from the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder showed similar types and frequencies of EPS as measured by rating scales, anticholinergic medication use, and spontaneous reports of EPS-related adverse events. For subjects with schizoaffective disorder, there was no dose-related increase in EPS observed for parkinsonism with the Simpson-Angus scale or akathisia with the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale. There was a dose-related increase observed with spontaneous EPS reports of hyperkinesia and dystonia and in the use of anticholinergic medications. Table 9 shows the EPS data from the pooled schizoaffective disorder trials. Table 9. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizoaffective Disorder Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Placebo 3 to 6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 9 to 12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 3 to 12 mg once-daily flexible dose EPS Group (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 23 22 17 Dyskinesia 1 3 1 1 Dystonia 1 2 3 2 Hyperkinesia 5 5 8 7 Parkinsonism 3 14 7 7 Tremor 3 12 11 5 Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle twitching Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia, restlessness Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, drooling, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle tightness, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor The incidences of EPS-related adverse events in the adolescent schizophrenia studies showed a similar dose-related pattern to those in the adult studies. There were notably higher incidences of dystonia, hyperkinesia, tremor, and parkinsonism in the adolescent population as compared to the adult studies (Table 10). Table 10. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adolescent Subjects Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Placebo 1.5 mg once-daily 3 mg once- daily 6 mg once- daily 12 mg once- daily EPS Group (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 0 6 25 22 40 Hyperkinesia 0 4 6 11 17 Dystonia 0 2 0 11 14 Tremor 0 2 6 7 11 Parkinsonism 0 0 6 2 14 Dyskinesia 0 2 6 2 6 Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle contracture, oculogyric crisis, tongue paralysis, torticollis Tremor group includes: Tremor Parkinsonism group includes: Cogwheel rigidity, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle rigidity Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle contractions involuntary Dystonia Class Effect: Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. 6.8 Laboratory Test Abnormalities In the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, between-group comparisons revealed no medically important differences between paliperidone and placebo in the proportions of subjects experiencing potentially clinically significant changes in routine serum chemistry, hematology, or urinalysis parameters. Similarly, there were no differences between paliperidone and placebo in the incidence of discontinuations due to changes in hematology, urinalysis, or serum chemistry, including mean changes from baseline in fasting glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglyceride, HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol measurements. However, paliperidone was associated with increases in serum prolactin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 6.9 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During Premarketing Evaluation of Paliperidone The following additional adverse reactions occurred in < 2% of paliperidone-treated subjects in the above schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder clinical trial datasets. The following also includes additional adverse reactions reported at any frequency by paliperidone-treated subjects who participated in other clinical studies. Cardiac disorders: bradycardia, palpitations Eye disorders: eye movement disorder Gastrointestinal disorders: flatulence General disorders: edema Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reaction Infections and infestations: urinary tract infection Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, pain in extremity Nervous system disorders: opisthotonus Psychiatric disorders: agitation, insomnia, nightmare Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast discomfort, menstruation irregular, retrograde ejaculation Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: nasal congestion Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: pruritus, rash Vascular disorders: hypertension The safety of paliperidone was also evaluated in a long-term trial designed to assess the maintenance of effect with paliperidone in adults with schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14)]. In general, adverse reaction types, frequencies, and severities during the initial 14-week open-label phase of this study were comparable to those observed in the 6-week, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose studies. Adverse reactions reported during the long-term double-blind phase of this study were similar in type and severity to those observed in the initial 14-week open-label phase. 6.10 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of paliperidone; because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency: angioedema, ileus, priapism, swollen tongue, tardive dyskinesia, urinary incontinence, urinary retention. 6.11 Adverse Reactions Reported With Risperidone Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone. Adverse reactions reported with risperidone can be found in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section of the risperidone package insert."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions: An increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (e.g. stroke, transient ischemic attack, including fatalities) has been seen in elderly patients with dementia-related psychoses treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.2) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: Manage with immediate discontinuation of drug and close monitoring (5.3) QT Prolongation: Increase in QT interval, avoid use with drugs that also increase QT interval and in patients with risk factors for prolonged QT interval (5.4) Tardive Dyskinesia: Discontinue drug if clinically appropriate (5.5) Metabolic Changes: Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and weight gain. (5.6) Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus: Monitor patients for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Monitor glucose regularly in patients with diabetes or at risk for diabetes (5.6) Dyslipidemia: Undesirable alterations have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.6) Weight Gain: Significant weight gain has been reported. Monitor weight gain. (5.6) Hyperprolactinemia: Prolactin elevations occur and persist during chronic administration (5.7) Gastrointestinal Narrowing: Obstructive symptoms may result in patients with gastrointestinal disease (5.8) Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope: Use with caution in patients with known cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease and patients predisposed to hypotension (5.9) Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis: has been reported with antipsychotics, including paliperidone. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of paliperidone should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. (5.10) Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment: Use caution when operating machinery (5.11) Seizures: Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold (5.12) Suicide: Closely supervise high-risk patients (5.14) 5.1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Paliperidone is not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients With Dementia-Related Psychosis In placebo-controlled trials with risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine in elderly subjects with dementia, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks) including fatalities compared to placebo-treated subjects. Paliperidone extended-release tablets were not marketed at the time these studies were performed. Paliperidone is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see also Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs, including paliperidone. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases in which the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system pathology. The management of NMS should include: (1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy; (2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring; and (3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient appears to require antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, reintroduction of drug therapy should be closely monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. 5.4 QT Prolongation Paliperidone causes a modest increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. The use of paliperidone should be avoided in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Paliperidone should also be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias. Certain circumstances may increase the risk of the occurrence of torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval, including (1) bradycardia; (2) hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia; (3) concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval; and (4) presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval. The effects of paliperidone on the QT interval were evaluated in a double-blind, active-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg single dose), multicenter QT study in adults with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, and in three placebo- and active-controlled 6-week, fixed-dose efficacy trials in adults with schizophrenia. In the QT study (n = 141), the 8 mg dose of immediate-release oral paliperidone (n=50) showed a mean placebo-subtracted increase from baseline in QTcLD of 12.3 msec (90% CI: 8.9; 15.6) on day 8 at 1.5 hours post-dose. The mean steady-state peak plasma concentration for this 8 mg dose of paliperidone immediate-release was more than twice the exposure observed with the maximum recommended 12 mg dose of paliperidone (Cmax ss = 113 ng/mL and 45 ng/mL, respectively, when administered with a standard breakfast). In this same study, a 4 mg dose of the immediate-release oral formulation of paliperidone, for which Cmax ss = 35 ng/mL, showed an increased placebo-subtracted QTcLD of 6.8 msec (90% CI: 3.6; 10.1) on day 2 at 1.5 hours post-dose. None of the subjects had a change exceeding 60 msec or a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time during this study. For the three fixed-dose efficacy studies in subjects with schizophrenia, electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements taken at various time points showed only one subject in the paliperidone 12 mg group had a change exceeding 60 msec at one time-point on Day 6 (increase of 62 msec). No subject receiving paliperidone had a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time in any of these three studies. 5.5 Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to predict which patients will develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible appear to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase, but the syndrome can develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses, although this is uncommon. There is no known treatment for established tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and may thus mask the underlying process. The effect of symptomatic suppression on the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, paliperdione should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient treated with paliperidone, drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment with paliperidone despite the presence of the syndrome. 5.6 Metabolic Changes Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and body weight gain. While all of the drugs in the class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus Hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus, in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, have been reported in patients treated with all atypical antipsychotics. These cases were, for the most part, seen in post-marketing clinical use and epidemiologic studies, not in clinical trials, and there have been few reports of hyperglycemia or diabetes in trial subjects treated with paliperidone. Assessment of the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and glucose abnormalities is complicated by the possibility of an increased background risk of diabetes mellitus in patients with schizophrenia and the increasing incidence of diabetes mellitus in the general population. Given these confounders, the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and hyperglycemia-related adverse events is not completely understood. However, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of treatment-emergent hyperglycemia-related adverse events in patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics. Because paliperidone extended-release tablets were not marketed at the time these studies were performed, it is not known if paliperidone is associated with this increased risk. Patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Patients with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes) who are starting treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. Any patient treated with atypical antipsychotics should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the atypical antipsychotic was discontinued; however, some patients required continuation of anti-diabetic treatment despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1a. Table 1a. Change in Fasting Glucose from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with schizophrenia Paliperidone Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n = 322 n = 122 n = 212 n = 234 n = 218 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -0.7 0.4 2.3 4.3 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 5.1% 3.2% 4.5% 4.8% 3.8% (<100 mg/dL to >= 126 mg/dL) (12/236) (3/93) (7/156) (9/187) (6/157) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, paliperidone was associated with a mean change in glucose of +3.3 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=570) and +4.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=314). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12 to 17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1b. Table 1b. Change in Fasting Glucose from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12 to 17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=41 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -1.4 -1.8 -0.1 5.2 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 3% 0% 0% 0% 11% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (1/32) (0/34) (0/9) (0/20) (3/27) Dyslipidemia Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2a. Table 2a. Change in Fasting Lipids from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with schizophrenia Paliperidone Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n = 331 n = 120 n = 216 n = 236 n = 231 Change from baseline -6.3 -4.4 -2.4 -5.3 -4.0 LDL n = 322 n = 116 n = 210 n = 231 n = 225 Change from baseline -3.2 0.5 -0.8 -3.9 -2.0 HDL n = 331 n = 119 n = 216 n = 234 n = 230 Change from baseline 0.3 -0.4 0.5 0.8 1.2 Triglycerides n = 331 n = 120 n = 216 n = 236 n = 231 Change from baseline -22.3 -18.3 -12.6 -10.6 -15.4 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 2.6% 2.8% 5.6% 4.1% 3.1% (< 200 mg/dL to >= 240 mg/dL) (5/194) (2/71) (7/125) (6/147) (4/130) LDL Normal to High 1.9% 0.0% 5.0% 3.7% 0.0% (< 100 mg/dL to >= 160 mg/dL) (2/105) (0/44) (3/60) (3/81) (0/69) HDL Normal to Low 22.0% 16.3% 29.1% 23.4% 20.0% (>= 40 mg/dL to < 40 mg/dL) (44/200) (13/80) (39/134) (32/137) (27/135) Triglycerides Normal to High 5.3% 11.0% 8.8% 8.7% 4.3% (< 150 mg/dL to >= 200 mg/dL) (11/208) (9/82) (12/136) (13/150) (6/139) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, paliperidone was associated with a mean change in (a) total cholesterol of -1.5 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -1.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317), (b) triglycerides of -6.4 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -10.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317); (c) LDL of -1.9 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=557) and -2.7 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=297); and (d) HDL of +2.2 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=568) and +3.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=302). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12 to 17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2b. Table 2b. Change in Fasting Lipids from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12 to 17 years) with Schizophrenia Cholesterol Paliperidone Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=39 n=45 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -7.8 -3.3 12.7 3.0 -1.5 LDL n=37 n=40 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -4.1 -3.1 7.2 2.4 0.6 HDL n=37 n=41 n=9 n=27 n=32 Change from baseline -1.9 0.0 1.3 1.4 3.9 Triglycerides n=39 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -8.9 3.2 17.6 -5.4 3.9 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 7% 4% 0% 6% 11% (<170 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (2/27) (1/26) (0/6) (1/18) (2/19) LDL Normal to High 3% 4% 14% 0% 9% (<110 mg/dL to >=130 mg/dL) (1/32) (1/25) (1/7) (0/22) (2/22) HDL Normal to Low 14% 7% 29% 13% 23% (>=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (4/28) (2/30) (2/7) (3/23) (5/22) Triglycerides Normal to High 3% 5% 13% 8% 7% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (1/34) (2/38) (1/8) (2/26) (2/28) Weight Gain Weight gain has been observed with atypical antipsychotic use. Clinical monitoring of weight is recommended. Schizophrenia Trials Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >=7% of body weight from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects are presented in Table 3a. Table 3a. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with schizophrenia Paliperidone Placebo n = 323 3 mg/day n = 112 6 mg/day n = 215 9 mg/day n = 235 12 mg/day n = 218 Weight (kg) Change from baseline -0.4 0.6 0.6 1.0 1.1 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 5% 7% 6% 9% 9% In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, paliperidone was associated with a mean change in weight of +1.4 kg at Week 24 (n=63) and +2.6 kg at Week 52 (n=302). Weight gain in adolescent subjects with schizophrenia was assessed in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study and an open-label extension with a median duration of exposure to paliperidone of 182 days. Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12 to 17 years of age) are presented in Table 3b. Table 3b. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12 to 17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day n=51 n=54 n=16 n=45 n=34 Weight (kg) Change from baseline 0.0 0.3 0.8 1.2 1.5 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 2% 6% 19% 7% 18% In the open-label long-term study the proportion of total subjects treated with paliperidone with an increase in body weight of >= 7% from baseline was 33%. When treating adolescent patients with paliperidone, weight gain should be assessed against that expected with normal growth. When taking into consideration the median duration of exposure to paliperidone in the open-label study (182 days) along with expected normal growth in this population based on age and gender, an assessment of standardized scores relative to normative data provides a more clinically relevant measure of changes in weight. The mean change from open-label baseline to endpoint in standardized score for weight was 0.1 (4% above the median for normative data). Based on comparison to the normative data, these changes are not considered to be clinically significant. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In the pooled data from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, a higher percentage of paliperidone-treated subjects (5%) had an increase in body weight of >= 7% compared with placebo-treated subjects (1%). In the study that examined high- and low-dose groups, the increase in body weight of >= 7% was 3% in the low-dose group, 7% in the high-dose group, and 1% in the placebo group. 5.7 Hyperprolactinemia Like other drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, paliperidone elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration. Paliperidone has a prolactin-elevating effect similar to that seen with risperidone, a drug that is associated with higher levels of prolactin than other antipsychotic drugs. Hyperprolactinemia, regardless of etiology, may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence have been reported in patients receiving prolactin-elevating compounds. Long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male subjects. Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin dependent in vitro, a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is considered in a patient with previously detected breast cancer. An increase in the incidence of pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasia (mammary adenocarcinomas, pituitary and pancreatic adenomas) was observed in the risperidone carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date have shown an association between chronic administration of this class of drugs and tumorigenesis in humans, but the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive. 5.8 Potential for Gastrointestinal Obstruction Because the paliperidone extended-release tablet is non-deformable and does not appreciably change in shape in the gastrointestinal tract, paliperidone should ordinarily not be administered to patients with pre-existing severe gastrointestinal narrowing (pathologic or iatrogenic, for example: esophageal motility disorders, small bowel inflammatory disease, "short gut" syndrome due to adhesions or decreased transit time, past history of peritonitis, cystic fibrosis, chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, or Meckel's diverticulum). There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of drugs in non-deformable controlled-release formulations. Because of the controlled-release design of the tablet, paliperidone should only be used in patients who are able to swallow the tablet whole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Patient Counseling Information (17.8)]. A decrease in transit time, e.g., as seen with diarrhea, would be expected to decrease bioavailability and an increase in transit time, e.g., as seen with gastrointestinal neuropathy, diabetic gastroparesis, or other causes, would be expected to increase bioavailability. These changes in bioavailability are more likely when the changes in transit time occur in the upper GI tract. 5.9 Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Paliperidone can induce orthostatic hypotension and syncope in some patients because of its alpha-blocking activity. In pooled results of the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose trials in subjects with schizophrenia, syncope was reported in 0.8% (7/850) of subjects treated with paliperidone (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) compared to 0.3% (1/355) of subjects treated with placebo. Paliperidone should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, history of myocardial infarction or ischemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension. 5.10 Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis Class Effect: In clinical trial and/or postmarketing experience, events of leukopenia/neutropenia have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents, including paliperidone. Agranulocytosis has also been reported. Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC) and history of drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low WBC or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of paliperidone should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1000/mm3) should discontinue paliperidone and have their WBC followed until recovery. 5.11 Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment Somnolence was reported in subjects treated with paliperidone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)]. Antipsychotics, including paliperidone, have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Patients should be cautioned about performing activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating hazardous machinery or operating a motor vehicle, until they are reasonably certain that paliperidone therapy does not adversely affect them. 5.12 Seizures During premarketing clinical trials in subjects with schizophrenia (the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies and a study conducted in elderly schizophrenic subjects), seizures occurred in 0.22% of subjects treated with paliperidone (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) and 0.25% of subjects treated with placebo. Like other antipsychotic drugs, paliperidone should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. 5.13 Dysphagia Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with advanced Alzheimer's dementia. paliperidone and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration pneumonia. 5.14 Suicide The possibility of suicide attempt is inherent in psychotic illnesses, and close supervision of high-risk patients should accompany drug therapy. Prescriptions for paliperidone should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose. 5.15 Priapism Drugs with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have been reported to induce priapism. Priapism has been reported with paliperidone during postmarketing surveillance. Severe priapism may require surgical intervention. 5.16 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) No cases of TTP were observed during clinical studies with paliperidone. Although cases of TTP have been reported in association with risperidone administration, the relationship to risperidone therapy is unknown. 5.17 Body Temperature Regulation Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing paliperidone to patients who will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration. 5.18 Antiemetic Effect An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain drugs or of conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye's syndrome, and brain tumor. 5.19 Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness Clinical experience with paliperidone in patients with certain concomitant illnesses is limited [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies are reported to have an increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medication. Manifestations of this increased sensitivity include confusion, obtundation, postural instability with frequent falls, extrapyramidal symptoms, and clinical features consistent with the neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Paliperidone has not been evaluated or used to any appreciable extent in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable heart disease. Patients with these diagnoses were excluded from premarketing clinical trials. Because of the risk of orthostatic hypotension with paliperidone, caution should be observed in patients with known cardiovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. 5.20 Monitoring: Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are recommended."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Paliperidone&limit=1&skip=4
Page 4 of 11
        "generic_name": [
          "PALIPERIDONE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Paliperidone"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Centrally-acting drugs: Due to CNS effects, use caution in combination. Avoid alcohol. (7.1) -Drugs that may cause orthostatic hypotension: An additive effect may be observed when co-administered with paliperidone extended-release tablets. (7.1) -Strong CYP3A4/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducers: It may be necessary to increase the dose of paliperidone when a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine) is co-administered. Conversely, on discontinuation of the strong inducer, it may be necessary to decrease the dose of paliperidone extended-release tablets. (7.2) -Co-administration of divalproex sodium increased Cmax and AUC of paliperidone extended-release tablets by approximately 50%. Adjust dose of paliperidone if necessary based on clinical assessment. (7.2) 7.1 Potential for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets to Affect Other Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of paliperidone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)], paliperidone extended-release tablets should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Paliperidone may antagonize the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension, an additive effect may be observed when paliperidone extended-release tablets are administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes. In vitro studies in human liver microsomes showed that paliperidone does not substantially inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5. Therefore, paliperidone is not expected to inhibit clearance of drugs that are metabolized by these metabolic pathways in a clinically relevant manner. Paliperidone is also not expected to have enzyme inducing properties. Paliperidone is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) at high concentrations. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and paliperidone is unlikely. In a drug interaction study, co-administration of paliperidone extended-release tablets (12 mg once daily for 5 days) with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (500 mg to 2000 mg once daily) did not affect the steady-state pharmacokinetics (AUC24h and Cmax,ss) of valproate in 13 patients stabilized on valproate. In a clinical study, subjects on stable doses of valproate had comparable valproate average plasma concentrations when paliperidone extended-release tablets 3 to 15 mg/day were added to their existing valproate treatment. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Paliperidone is not a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, so that an interaction with inhibitors or inducers of these isozymes is unlikely. While in vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone metabolism, in vivo studies do not show decreased elimination by these isozymes and they contribute to only a small fraction of total body clearance. In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate. Co-administration of paliperidone extended-release tablets 6 mg once daily with carbamazepine, a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp), at 200 mg twice daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone. A minor decrease in the amount of drug excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of paliperidone extended-release tablets should be re-evaluated and increased if necessary. Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of paliperidone extended-release tablets should be re-evaluated and decreased if necessary. Paliperidone is metabolized to a limited extent by CYP2D6 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In an interaction study in healthy subjects in which a single 3 mg dose of paliperidone extended-release tablets was administered concomitantly with 20 mg per day of paroxetine (a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor), paliperidone exposures were on average 16% (90% CI: 4, 30) higher in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers. Higher doses of paroxetine have not been studied. The clinical relevance is unknown. Co-administration of a single dose of paliperidone extended-release tablets 12 mg with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. Dosage reduction for paliperidone extended-release tablets should be considered when paliperidone extended-release tablets are co-administered with valproate after clinical assessment. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and paliperidone is unlikely."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence >= 5% and at least twice that for placebo) were (6) -Adults with schizophrenia: extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. -Adolescents with schizophrenia: somnolence, akathisia, tremor, dystonia, cogwheel rigidity, anxiety, weight increased, and tachycardia. -Adults with schizoaffective disorder: extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-877-446-3679 (1-877-4-INFO-RX) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Overall Adverse Reaction Profile The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: -Increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Cerebrovascular adverse reactions, including stroke, in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] -Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] -Tardive dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] -Metabolic changes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] -Hyperprolactinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] -Potential for gastrointestinal obstruction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] -Orthostatic hypotension and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] -Leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] -Potential for cognitive and motor impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] -Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] -Dysphagia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] -Suicide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] -Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] -Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)] -Disruption of body temperature regulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)] -Antiemetic effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18)] -Increased sensitivity in patients with Parkinson's disease or those with dementia with Lewy bodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] -Diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets and at least twice the placebo rate in any of the dose groups) were extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult patients with schizoaffective disorder (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets and at least twice the placebo rate) were extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (causing discontinuation in 2% of paliperidone extended-release tablets-treated subjects) were nervous system disorders. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder were gastrointestinal disorders, which resulted in discontinuation in 1% of paliperidone extended-release tablets-treated subjects. [See Adverse Reactions (6.4)]. The safety of paliperidone extended-release tablets was evaluated in 1,205 adult subjects with schizophrenia who participated in three placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials, of whom 850 subjects received paliperidone extended-release tablets at fixed doses ranging from 3 mg to 12 mg once daily. The information presented in this section was derived from pooled data from these three trials. Additional safety information from the placebo-controlled phase of the long-term maintenance study, in which subjects received paliperidone extended-release tablets at daily doses within the range of 3 mg to 15 mg (n = 104), is also included. The safety of paliperidone extended-release tablets was evaluated in 150 adolescent subjects 12 to 17 years of age with schizophrenia who received paliperidone extended-release tablets in the dose range of 1.5 mg to 12 mg/day in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The safety of paliperidone extended-release tablets was also evaluated in 622 adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder who participated in two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials. In one of these trials, 206 subjects were assigned to one of two dose levels of paliperidone extended-release tablets: 6 mg with the option to reduce to 3 mg (n = 108) or 12 mg with the option to reduce to 9 mg (n = 98) once daily. In the other study, 214 subjects received flexible doses of paliperidone extended-release tablets (3 mg to 12 mg once daily). Both studies included subjects who received paliperidone extended-release tablets either as monotherapy or as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Adverse events during exposure to study treatment were obtained by general inquiry and recorded by clinical investigators using their own terminology. Consequently, to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse events, events were grouped in standardized categories using MedDRA terminology. Throughout this section, adverse reactions are reported. Adverse reactions are adverse events that were considered to be reasonably associated with the use of paliperidone extended-release tablets (adverse drug reactions) based on the comprehensive assessment of the available adverse event information. A causal association for paliperidone extended-release tablets often cannot be reliably established in individual cases. Further, because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. 6.2 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizophrenia in Adults and Adolescents Adult Patients with Schizophrenia Table 4 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in paliperidone extended-release tablets-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 4: Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia in Three Short-Term, Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical TrialsTable includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the paliperidone extended-release tablets dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from three studies; one study included once daily paliperidone extended-release tablets doses of 3 mg and 9 mg, the second study included 6 mg, 9 mg, and 12 mg, and the third study included 6 mg and 12 mg [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, oculogyration, parkinsonism, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Adverse reactions for which the paliperidone extended-release tablets incidence was equal to or less than placebo are not listed in the table, but included the following: vomiting. Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Placebo 3 mg 6 mg 9 mg 12 mg once daily once daily once daily once daily Body System or Organ Class (N = 355) (N = 127) (N = 235) (N = 246) (N = 242) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 37 48 47 53 59 Cardiac disorders Atrioventricular block first degree 1 2 0 2 1 Bundle branch block 2 3 1 3 < 1 Sinus arrhythmia 0 2 1 1 < 1 Tachycardia 7 14 12 12 14 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal pain upper 1 1 3 2 2 Dry mouth 1 2 3 1 3 Salivary hypersecretion < 1 0 < 1 1 4 General disorders Asthenia 1 2 < 1 2 2 Fatigue 1 2 1 2 2 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 3 8 10 Dizziness 4 6 5 4 5 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 10 7 20 18 Headache 12 11 12 14 14 Somnolence 7 6 9 10 11 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotension 1 2 1 2 4 Adolescent Patients with Schizophrenia Table 5 lists the adverse reactions reported in a fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescent subjects 12 to 17 years of age with schizophrenia, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in paliperidone extended-release tablets-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 5. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets-Treated Adolescent Subjects with Schizophrenia in a Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical TrialTable includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the paliperidone extended-release tablets dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms oculogyric crisis, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, nuchal rigidity, torticollis, trismus, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle contractions involuntary, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, tremor, and restlessness. Somnolence includes the terms somnolence, sedation, and hypersomnia. Insomnia includes the terms insomnia and initial insomnia. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Hypertension includes the terms hypertension and blood pressure increased. Gynecomastia includes the terms gynecomastia and breast swelling. Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg 3 mg 6 mg 12 mg once daily once daily once daily once daily Body System or Organ Class (N = 51) (N = 54) (N = 16) (N = 45) (N = 35) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 43 37 50 58 74 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 0 0 6 9 6 Eye disorders Vision blurred 0 0 0 0 3 Gastrointestinal disorders Dry mouth 2 0 0 0 3 Salivary hypersecretion 0 2 6 2 0 Swollen tongue 0 0 0 0 3 Vomiting 10 0 6 11 3 General disorders Asthenia 0 0 0 2 3 Fatigue 0 4 0 2 3 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 2 4 0 4 0 Investigations Weight increased 0 7 6 2 3 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 0 4 6 11 17 Dizziness 0 2 6 2 3 Extrapyramidal symptoms 0 4 19 18 23 Headache 4 9 6 4 14 Lethargy 0 0 0 0 3 Somnolence 4 9 13 20 26 Tongue paralysis 0 0 0 0 3 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 4 0 0 2 9 Reproductive system and breast disorders Amenorrhea 0 0 6 0 0 Galactorrhea 0 0 0 4 0 Gynecomastia 0 0 0 0 3 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Epistaxis 0 0 0 2 0 6.3 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizoaffective Disorder in Adults Table 6 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets and for which the incidence in paliperidone extended-release tablets-treated subjects was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 6: Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizoaffective Disorder in Two Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical TrialsError! Reference source not found. Percentage of Patients Placebo Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets 3 mg to 6 mg 9 mg to 12 mg 3 mg to 12 mg once daily once daily once daily fixed-dose range fixed-dose range flexible dose Body System or Organ Class (N = 202) (N = 108) (N = 98) (N = 214) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 32 48 50 43 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 2 3 1 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal discomfort/abdominal pain upper 1 1 0 3 Constipation 2 4 5 4 Dyspepsia 2 5 6 6 Nausea 6 8 8 5 Stomach discomfort 1 0 1 2 General disorders Asthenia 1 3 4 < 1 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 2 5 3 Rhinitis 0 1 3 1 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 2 2 2 Investigations Weight increased 1 5 4 4 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite < 1 1 0 2 Increased appetite < 1 3 2 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 1 1 1 3 Myalgia < 1 2 4 1 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 6 6 Dysarthria 0 1 4 2 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 20 17 12 Somnolence 5 12 12 8 Psychiatric disorders Sleep disorder < 1 2 3 0 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 1 3 1 Pharyngolaryngeal pain < 1 0 2 1 Monotherapy Versus Adjunctive Therapy The designs of the two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder included the option for subjects to receive antidepressants (except monoamine oxidase inhibitors) and/or mood stabilizers (lithium, valproate, or lamotrigine). In the subject population evaluated for safety, 230 (55%) subjects received paliperidone extended-release tablets as monotherapy and 190 (45%) subjects received paliperidone extended-release tablets as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. When comparing these two subpopulations, only nausea occurred at a greater frequency (>= 3% difference) in subjects receiving paliperidone extended-release tablets as monotherapy. 6.4 Discontinuations Due to Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the three schizophrenia placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults were 3% and 1% in paliperidone extended-release tablets-treated and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were nervous system disorders (2% and 0% in paliperidone extended-release tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). Among the adverse reactions in the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, only dystonia led to discontinuation (< 1% of paliperidone extended-release tablets-treated subjects). Schizoaffective Disorder Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the two schizoaffective disorder placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adults were 1% and < 1% in paliperidone extended-release tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were gastrointestinal disorders (1% and 0% in paliperidone extended-release tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). 6.5 Dose-Related Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials Based on the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with a greater than 2% incidence in the subjects treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets, the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, akathisia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, parkinsonism, and salivary hypersecretion. For most of these, the increased incidence was seen primarily at the 12 mg dose, and, in some cases, the 9 mg dose. In the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with > 2% incidence in the subjects treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets, the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: tachycardia, akathisia, extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, and headache. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In a placebo-controlled, 6-week, high- and low-dose study in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, akathisia, dystonia, dysarthria, myalgia, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, cough, and pharyngolaryngeal pain occurred more frequently (i.e., a difference of at least 2%) in subjects who received higher doses of paliperidone extended-release tablets compared with subjects who received lower doses. 6.6 Demographic Differences An examination of population subgroups in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and in the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder did not reveal any evidence of clinically relevant differences in safety on the basis of gender or race alone; there was also no difference on the basis of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. 6.7 Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia provided information regarding treatment-emergent EPS. Several methods were used to measure EPS: (1) the Simpson-Angus global score (mean change from baseline) which broadly evaluates Parkinsonism, (2) the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global clinical rating score (mean change from baseline) which evaluates akathisia, (3) use of anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS (Table 7), and (4) incidence of spontaneous reports of EPS (Table 8). For the Simpson-Angus Scale, spontaneous EPS reports and use of anticholinergic medications, there was a dose-related increase observed for the 9 mg and 12 mg doses. There was no difference observed between placebo and paliperidone extended-release tablets 3 mg and 6 mg doses for any of these EPS measures. Table 7: Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Assessed by Incidence of Ratings Scales and Use of Anticholinergic Medication - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Placebo 3 mg 6 mg 9 mg 12 mg once daily once daily once daily once daily EPS Group (N = 355) (N = 127) (N = 235) (N = 246) (N = 242) ParkinsonismFor Parkinsonism, percent of patients with Simpson-Angus global score > 0.3 (Global score defined as total sum of items score divided by the number of items) 9 11 3 15 14 AkathisiaFor Akathisia, percent of patients with Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global score >= 2 6 6 4 7 9 Use of anticholinergic medicationsPercent of patients who received anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS 10 10 9 22 22 Table 8: Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle twitching, tardive dyskinesia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration, trismus Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, drooling, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Placebo 3 mg 6 mg 9 mg 12 mg once daily once daily once daily once daily EPS Group (N = 355) (N = 127) (N = 235) (N = 246) (N = 242) Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 13 10 25 26 Dyskinesia 3 5 3 8 9 Dystonia 1 1 1 5 5 Hyperkinesia 4 4 3 8 10 Parkinsonism 2 3 3 7 6 Tremor 3 3 3 4 3 Compared to data from the studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia, pooled data from the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder showed similar types and frequencies of EPS as measured by rating scales, anticholinergic medication use, and spontaneous reports of EPS-related adverse events. For subjects with schizoaffective disorder, there was no dose-related increase in EPS observed for parkinsonism with the Simpson-Angus scale or akathisia with the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale. There was a dose-related increase observed with spontaneous EPS reports of hyperkinesia and dystonia and in the use of anticholinergic medications. Table 9 shows the EPS data from the pooled schizoaffective disorder trials. Table 9: Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizoaffective Disorder Studies in Adults Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle twitching Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia, restlessness Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, drooling, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle tightness, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Placebo 3 mg to 6 mg 9 mg to 12 mg 3 mg to 12 mg once daily once daily once daily fixed-dose range fixed-dose range flexible dose EPS Group (N = 202) (N = 108) (N = 98) (N = 214) Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 23 22 17 Dyskinesia 1 3 1 1 Dystonia 1 2 3 2 Hyperkinesia 5 5 8 7 Parkinsonism 3 14 7 7 Tremor 3 12 11 5 The incidences of EPS-related adverse events in the adolescent schizophrenia studies showed a similar dose-related pattern to those in the adult studies. There were notably higher incidences of dystonia, hyperkinesia, tremor, and parkinsonism in the adolescent population as compared to the adult studies (Table 10). Table 10. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adolescent Subjects Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle contracture, oculogyric crisis, tongue paralysis, torticollis Tremor group includes: Tremor Parkinsonism group includes: Cogwheel rigidity, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle rigidity Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle contractions involuntary Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg 3 mg 6 mg 12 mg once daily once daily once daily once daily EPS Group (N = 51) (N = 54) (N = 16) (N = 45) (N = 35) Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 0 6 25 22 40 Hyperkinesia 0 4 6 11 17 Dystonia 0 2 0 11 14 Tremor 0 2 6 7 11 Parkinsonism 0 0 6 2 14 Dyskinesia 0 2 6 2 6 Dystonia Class Effect Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. 6.8 Laboratory Test Abnormalities In the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, between-group comparisons revealed no medically important differences between paliperidone extended-release tablets and placebo in the proportions of subjects experiencing potentially clinically significant changes in routine serum chemistry, hematology, or urinalysis parameters. Similarly, there were no differences between paliperidone extended-release tablets and placebo in the incidence of discontinuations due to changes in hematology, urinalysis, or serum chemistry, including mean changes from baseline in fasting glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglyceride, HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol measurements. However, paliperidone extended-release tablets were associated with increases in serum prolactin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 6.9 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During Premarketing Evaluation of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets The following additional adverse reactions occurred in < 2% of paliperidone extended-release tablets-treated subjects in the above schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder clinical trial datasets. The following also includes additional adverse reactions reported at any frequency by paliperidone extended-release tablets-treated subjects who participated in other clinical studies. Cardiac Disorders: bradycardia, palpitations Eye Disorders: eye movement disorder Gastrointestinal Disorders: flatulence General Disorders: edema Immune System Disorders: anaphylactic reaction Infections and Infestations: urinary tract infection Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: arthralgia, pain in extremity Nervous System Disorders: opisthotonus Psychiatric Disorders: agitation, insomnia, nightmare Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: breast discomfort, menstruation irregular, retrograde ejaculation Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders: nasal congestion Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: pruritus, rash Vascular Disorders: hypertension The safety of paliperidone extended-release tablets was also evaluated in a long-term trial designed to assess the maintenance of effect with paliperidone extended-release tabletsin adults with schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14)]. In general, adverse reaction types, frequencies, and severities during the initial 14-week open-label phase of this study were comparable to those observed in the 6-week, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose studies. Adverse reactions reported during the long-term double-blind phase of this study were similar in type and severity to those observed in the initial 14-week open-label phase. 6.10 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of paliperidone extended-release tablets, because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency: angioedema, ileus, priapism, swollen tongue, tardive dyskinesia, urinary incontinence, urinary retention. 6.11 Adverse Reactions Reported with Risperidone Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone. Adverse reactions reported with risperidone can be found in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section of the risperidone package insert."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS - Cerobrovascular Adverse Reactions: An increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (e.g., stroke, transient ischemic attack, including fatalities) has been seen in elderly patients with dementia-related psychoses treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.2) - Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: Manage with immediate discontinuation of drug and close monitoring. (5.3) - QT Prolongation: Increase in QT interval, avoid use with drugs that also increase QT interval and in patients with risk factors for prolonged QT interval. (5.4) - Tardive Dyskinesia: Discontinue drug if clinically appropriate. (5.5) - Metabolic Changes: Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and weight gain. (5.6) o Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus: Monitor patients for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Monitor glucose regularly in patients with diabetes or at risk for diabetes. (5.6) o Dyslipidemia: Undesirable alterations have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.6) o Weight Gain: Significant weight gain has been reported. Monitor weight gain. (5.6) - Hyperprolactinemia: Prolactin elevations occur and persist during chronic administration. (5.7) - Gastrointestinal Narrowing: Obstructive symptoms may result in patients with gastrointestinal disease. (5.8) - Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope: Use with caution in patients with known cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease and patients predisposed to hypotension. (5.9) - Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis: Has been reported with antipsychotics, including paliperidone extended-release tablets. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of paliperidone extended-release tablets should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. (5.10) - Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment: Use caution when operating machinery. (5.11) - Seizures: Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold. (5.12) - Suicide: Closely supervise high-risk patients. (5.14) 5.1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Paliperidone extended -release tablets are not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis In placebo-controlled trials with risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine in elderly subjects with dementia, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks) including fatalities compared to placebo-treated subjects. Paliperidone extended-release tablets were not marketed at the time these studies were performed. Paliperidone extended-release tablets are not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see also Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs, including paliperidone. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases in which the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system pathology. The management of NMS should include: (1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy; (2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring; and (3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient appears to require antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, reintroduction of drug therapy should be closely monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. 5.4 QT Prolongation Paliperidone causes a modest increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. The use of paliperidone should be avoided in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Paliperidone should also be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias. Certain circumstances may increase the risk of the occurrence of torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval, including (1) bradycardia; (2) hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia; (3) concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval; and (4) presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval. The effects of paliperidone on the QT interval were evaluated in a double-blind, active-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg single dose), multicenter QT study in adults with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, and in three placebo- and active-controlled 6-week, fixed-dose efficacy trials in adults with schizophrenia. In the QT study (n = 141), the 8 mg dose of immediate-release oral paliperidone (n = 50) showed a mean placebo-subtracted increase from baseline in QTcLD of 12.3 msec (90% CI: 8.9; 15.6) on day 8 at 1.5 hours post-dose. The mean steady-state peak plasma concentration for this 8 mg dose of paliperidone immediate-release was more than twice the exposure observed with the maximum recommended 12 mg dose of paliperidone extended-release tablets (Cmax,ss = 113 ng/mL and 45 ng/mL, respectively, when administered with a standard breakfast). In this same study, a 4 mg dose of the immediate-release oral formulation of paliperidone, for which Cmax,ss = 35 ng/mL, showed an increased placebo-subtracted QTcLD of 6.8 msec (90% CI: 3.6; 10.1) on day 2 at 1.5 hours post-dose. None of the subjects had a change exceeding 60 msec or a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time during this study. For the three fixed-dose efficacy studies in subjects with schizophrenia, electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements taken at various time points showed only one subject in the paliperidone extended-release tablets 12 mg group had a change exceeding 60 msec at one time-point on Day 6 (increase of 62 msec). No subject receiving paliperidone extended-release tablets had a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time in any of these three studies. 5.5 Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to predict which patients will develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible appear to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase, but the syndrome can develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses, although this is uncommon. There is no known treatment for established tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and may thus mask the underlying process. The effect of symptomatic suppression on the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, paliperidone extended-release tablets should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets, drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment with paliperidone extended-release tablets despite the presence of the syndrome. 5.6 Metabolic Changes Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and body weight gain. While all of the drugs in the class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus Hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus, in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, have been reported in patients treated with all atypical antipsychotics. These cases were, for the most part, seen in postmarketing clinical use and epidemiologic studies, not in clinical trials, and there have been few reports of hyperglycemia or diabetes in trial subjects treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets. Assessment of the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and glucose abnormalities is complicated by the possibility of an increased background risk of diabetes mellitus in patients with schizophrenia and the increasing incidence of diabetes mellitus in the general population. Given these confounders, the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and hyperglycemia-related adverse events is not completely understood. However, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of treatment-emergent hyperglycemia-related adverse events in patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics. Because paliperidone extended-release tablets were not marketed at the time these studies were performed, it is not known if paliperidone extended-release tablets are associated with this increased risk. Patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Patients with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes) who are starting treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. Any patient treated with atypical antipsychotics should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the atypical antipsychotic was discontinued; however, some patients required continuation of anti-diabetic treatment despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1a. Table 1a: Change in Fasting Glucose from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n = 322 n = 122 n = 212 n = 234 n = 218 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -0.7 0.4 2.3 4.3 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 5.1% 3.2% 4.5% 4.8% 3.8% (< 100 mg/dL to >= 126 mg/dL) (12/236) (3/93) (7/156) (9/187) (6/157) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, paliperidone extended-release tabletswere associated with a mean change in glucose of +3.3 mg/dL at Week 24 (n = 570) and +4.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n = 314). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12 to 17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1b. Table 1b. Change in Fasting Glucose from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12 to 17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n = 41 n = 44 n = 11 n = 28 n = 32 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -1.4 -1.8 -0.1 5.2 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 3% 0% 0% 0% 11% (< 100 mg/dL to >= 126 mg/dL) (1/32) (0/34) (0/9) (0/20) (3/27) Dyslipidemia Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2a. Table 2a: Change in Fasting Lipids from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n = 331 n = 120 n = 216 n = 236 n = 231 Change from baseline -6.3 -4.4 -2.4 -5.3 -4 LDL n = 322 n = 116 n = 210 n = 231 n = 225 Change from baseline -3.2 0.5 -0.8 -3.9 -2 HDL n = 331 n = 119 n = 216 n = 234 n = 230 Change from baseline 0.3 -0.4 0.5 0.8 1.2 Triglycerides n = 331 n = 120 n = 216 n = 236 n = 231 Change from baseline -22.3 -18.3 -12.6 -10.6 -15.4 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 2.6% 2.8% 5.6% 4.1% 3.1% (< 200 mg/dL to >= 240 mg/dL) (5/194) (2/71) (7/125) (6/147) (4/130) LDL Normal to High 1.9% 0% 5% 3.7% 0% (< 100 mg/dL to >= 160 mg/dL) (2/105) (0/44) (3/60) (3/81) (0/69) HDL Normal to Low 22% 16.3% 29.1% 23.4% 20% (>= 40 mg/dL to < 40 mg/dL) (44/200) (13/80) (39/134) (32/137) (27/135) Triglycerides Normal to High 5.3% 11% 8.8% 8.7% 4.3% (< 150 mg/dL to >= 200 mg/dL) (11/208) (9/82) (12/136) (13/150) (6/139) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, paliperidone extended-release tablets were associated with a mean change in (a) total cholesterol of -1.5 mg/dL at Week 24 (n = 573) and -1.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n = 317), (b) triglycerides of -6.4 mg/dL at Week 24 (n = 573) and -10.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n = 317); (c) LDL of -1.9 mg/dL at Week 24 (n = 557) and -2.7 mg/dL at Week 52 (n = 297); and (d) HDL of +2.2 mg/dL at Week 24 (n = 568) and +3.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n = 302). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12 to 17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2b. Table 2b. Change in Fasting Lipids from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12 to 17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n = 39 n = 45 n = 11 n = 28 n = 32 Change from baseline -7.8 -3.3 12.7 3 -1.5 LDL n = 37 n = 40 n = 9 n = 27 n = 31 Change from baseline -4.1 -3.1 7.2 2.4 0.6 HDL n = 37 n = 41 n = 9 n = 27 n = 31 Change from baseline -1.9 0 1.3 1.4 0 Triglycerides n = 39 n = 44 n = 11 n = 28 n = 32 Change from baseline -8.9 3.2 17.6 -5.4 3.9 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 7% 4% 0% 6% 11% (< 170 mg/dL to >= 200 mg/dL) (2/27) (1/26) (0/6) (1/18) (2/19) LDL Normal to High 3% 4% 14% 0% 9% (< 110 mg/dL to >= 130 mg/dL) (1/32) (1/25) (1/7) (0/22) (2/22) HDL Normal to Low 14% 7% 29% 13% 23% (>= 40 mg/dL to < 40 mg/dL) (4/28) (2/30) (2/7) (3/23) (5/22) Triglycerides Normal to High 3% 5% 13% 8% 7% (< 150 mg/dL to >= 200 mg/dL) (1/34) (2/38) (1/8) (2/26) (2/28) Weight Gain Weight gain has been observed with atypical antipsychotic use. Clinical monitoring of weight is recommended. Schizophrenia Trials Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects are presented in Table 3a. Table 3a: Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day n = 323 n = 112 n = 215 n = 235 n = 218 Weight (kg) Change from baseline -0.4 0.6 0.6 1 1.1 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 5% 7% 6% 9% 9% In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, paliperidone extended-release tablets were associated with a mean change in weight of +1.4 kg at Week 24 (n = 63) and +2.6 kg at Week 52 (n = 302). Weight gain in adolescent subjects with schizophrenia was assessed in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study and an open-label extension with a median duration of exposure to paliperidone extended-release tablets of 182 days. Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12 to 17 years of age) are presented in Table 3b. Table 3b. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12 to 17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day n = 51 n = 54 n = 16 n = 45 n = 34 Weight (kg) Change from baseline 0 0.3 0.8 1.2 1.5 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 2% 6% 19% 7% 18% In the open-label long-term study the proportion of total subjects treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets with an increase in body weight of >= 7% from baseline was 33%. When treating adolescent patients with paliperidone extended-release tablets, weight gain should be assessed against that expected with normal growth. When taking into consideration the median duration of exposure to paliperidone extended-release tablets in the open-label study (182 days) along with expected normal growth in this population based on age and gender, an assessment of standardized scores relative to normative data provides a more clinically relevant measure of changes in weight. The mean change from open-label baseline to endpoint in standardized score for weight was 0.1 (4% above the median for normative data). Based on comparison to the normative data, these changes are not considered to be clinically significant. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In the pooled data from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, a higher percentage of paliperidone extended-release tablets-treated subjects (5%) had an increase in body weight of >= 7% compared with placebo-treated subjects (1%). In the study that examined high- and low-dose groups, the increase in body weight of >= 7% was 3% in the low-dose group, 7% in the high-dose group, and 1% in the placebo group. 5.7 Hyperprolactinemia Like other drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, paliperidone elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration. Paliperidone has a prolactin-elevating effect similar to that seen with risperidone, a drug that is associated with higher levels of prolactin than other antipsychotic drugs. Hyperprolactinemia, regardless of etiology, may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence have been reported in patients receiving prolactin-elevating compounds. Long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male subjects. Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin dependent in vitro, a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is considered in a patient with previously detected breast cancer. An increase in the incidence of pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasia (mammary adenocarcinomas, pituitary and pancreatic adenomas) was observed in the risperidone carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date have shown an association between chronic administration of this class of drugs and tumorigenesis in humans, but the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive. 5.8 Potential for Gastrointestinal Obstruction Because the paliperidone extended-release tablet is non-deformable and does not appreciably change in shape in the gastrointestinal tract, paliperidone extended-release tablets should ordinarily not be administered to patients with pre-existing severe gastrointestinal narrowing (pathologic or iatrogenic, for example: esophageal motility disorders, small bowel inflammatory disease, "short gut" syndrome due to adhesions or decreased transit time, past history of peritonitis, cystic fibrosis, chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, or Meckel's diverticulum). There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of drugs in non-deformable controlled-release formulations. Because of the controlled-release design of the tablet, paliperidone extended-release tablets should only be used in patients who are able to swallow the tablet whole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Patient Counseling Information (17.8)]. A decrease in transit time, e.g., as seen with diarrhea, would be expected to decrease bioavailability and an increase in transit time, e.g., as seen with gastrointestinal neuropathy, diabetic gastroparesis, or other causes, would be expected to increase bioavailability. These changes in bioavailability are more likely when the changes in transit time occur in the upper GI tract. 5.9 Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Paliperidone can induce orthostatic hypotension and syncope in some patients because of its alpha-blocking activity. In pooled results of the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose trials in subjects with schizophrenia, syncope was reported in 0.8% (7/850) of subjects treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) compared to 0.3% (1/355) of subjects treated with placebo. Paliperidone extended-release tablets should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, history of myocardial infarction or ischemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension. 5.10 Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis Class Effect In clinical trial and/or postmarketing experience, events of leukopenia/neutropenia have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents, including paliperidone extended-release tablets. Agranulocytosis has also been reported. Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC) and history of drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low WBC or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of paliperidone extended-release tabletsshould be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count < 1000/mm3) should discontinue paliperidone extended-release tablets and have their WBC followed until recovery. 5.11 Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment Somnolence was reported in subjects treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)]. Antipsychotics, including paliperidone extended-release tablets, have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Patients should be cautioned about performing activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating hazardous machinery or operating a motor vehicle, until they are reasonably certain that paliperidone therapy does not adversely affect them. 5.12 Seizures During premarketing clinical trials in subjects with schizophrenia (the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies and a study conducted in elderly schizophrenic subjects), seizures occurred in 0.22% of subjects treated with paliperidone extended-release tablets (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) and 0.25% of subjects treated with placebo. Like other antipsychotic drugs, paliperidone extended-release tablets should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. 5.13 Dysphagia Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with advanced Alzheimer's dementia. Paliperidone extended-release tablets and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration pneumonia. 5.14 Suicide The possibility of suicide attempt is inherent in psychotic illnesses, and close supervision of high-risk patients should accompany drug therapy. Prescriptions for paliperidone extended-release tablets should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose. 5.15 Priapism Drugs with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have been reported to induce priapism. Priapism has been reported with paliperidone extended-release tablets during postmarketing surveillance. Severe priapism may require surgical intervention. 5.16 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) No cases of TTP were observed during clinical studies with paliperidone. Although cases of TTP have been reported in association with risperidone administration, the relationship to risperidone therapy is unknown. 5.17 Body Temperature Regulation Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing paliperidone extended-release tablets to patients who will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration. 5.18 Antiemetic Effect An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain drugs or of conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye's syndrome, and brain tumor. 5.19 Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness Clinical experience with paliperidone extended-release tablets in patients with certain concomitant illnesses is limited [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies are reported to have an increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medication. Manifestations of this increased sensitivity include confusion, obtundation, postural instability with frequent falls, extrapyramidal symptoms, and clinical features consistent with the neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Paliperidone extended-release tablets have not been evaluated or used to any appreciable extent in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable heart disease. Patients with these diagnoses were excluded from premarketing clinical trials. Because of the risk of orthostatic hypotension with paliperidone extended-release tablets, caution should be observed in patients with known cardiovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. 5.20 Monitoring: Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are recommended."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Paliperidone&limit=1&skip=5
Page 5 of 11
        "generic_name": [
          "PALIPERIDONE"
        "brand_name": [
          "INVEGA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Centrally-acting drugs: Due to CNS effects, use caution in combination. Avoid alcohol. (7.1) Drugs that may cause orthostatic hypotension: An additive effect may be observed when co-administered with INVEGA(R). (7.1) Strong CYP3A4/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducers: It may be necessary to increase the dose of INVEGA(R) when a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine) is co-administered. Conversely, on discontinuation of the strong inducer, it may be necessary to decrease the dose of INVEGA(R). (7.2) Co-administration of divalproex sodium increased Cmax and AUC of paliperidone by approximately 50%. Adjust dose of INVEGA(R) if necessary based on clinical assessment. (7.2) 7.1 Potential for INVEGA(R) to Affect Other Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of paliperidone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)], INVEGA(R) should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Paliperidone may antagonize the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension, an additive effect may be observed when INVEGA(R) is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes. In vitro studies in human liver microsomes showed that paliperidone does not substantially inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5. Therefore, paliperidone is not expected to inhibit clearance of drugs that are metabolized by these metabolic pathways in a clinically relevant manner. Paliperidone is also not expected to have enzyme inducing properties. Paliperidone is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) at high concentrations. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and INVEGA(R) is unlikely. In a drug interaction study, co-administration of INVEGA(R) (12 mg once daily for 5 days) with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (500 mg to 2000 mg once daily) did not affect the steady-state pharmacokinetics (AUC24h and Cmax,ss) of valproate in 13 patients stabilized on valproate. In a clinical study, subjects on stable doses of valproate had comparable valproate average plasma concentrations when INVEGA(R) 3-15 mg/day was added to their existing valproate treatment. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect INVEGA(R) Paliperidone is not a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, so that an interaction with inhibitors or inducers of these isozymes is unlikely. While in vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone metabolism, in vivo studies do not show decreased elimination by these isozymes and they contribute to only a small fraction of total body clearance. In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate. Co-administration of INVEGA(R) 6 mg once daily with carbamazepine, a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp), at 200 mg twice daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone. A minor decrease in the amount of drug excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of INVEGA(R) should be re-evaluated and increased if necessary. Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of INVEGA(R) should be re-evaluated and decreased if necessary. Paliperidone is metabolized to a limited extent by CYP2D6 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In an interaction study in healthy subjects in which a single 3 mg dose of INVEGA(R) was administered concomitantly with 20 mg per day of paroxetine (a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor), paliperidone exposures were on average 16% (90% CI: 4, 30) higher in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers. Higher doses of paroxetine have not been studied. The clinical relevance is unknown. Co-administration of a single dose of INVEGA(R) 12 mg with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. Dosage reduction for INVEGA(R) should be considered when INVEGA(R) is co-administered with valproate after clinical assessment. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and INVEGA(R) is unlikely."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence >= 5% and at least twice that for placebo) were (6) Adults with schizophrenia: extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. Adolescents with schizophrenia: somnolence, akathisia, tremor, dystonia, cogwheel rigidity, anxiety, weight increased, and tachycardia. Adults with schizoaffective disorder: extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-JANSSEN (1-800-526-7736) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Overall Adverse Reaction Profile The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cerebrovascular adverse reactions, including stroke, in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Tardive dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Metabolic changes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hyperprolactinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Potential for gastrointestinal obstruction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Orthostatic hypotension and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Potential for cognitive and motor impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Dysphagia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Suicide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)] Disruption of body temperature regulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)] Antiemetic effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18)] Increased sensitivity in patients with Parkinson's disease or those with dementia with Lewy bodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] Diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) and at least twice the placebo rate in any of the dose groups) were extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult patients with schizoaffective disorder (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) and at least twice the placebo rate) were extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (causing discontinuation in 2% of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects) were nervous system disorders. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder were gastrointestinal disorders, which resulted in discontinuation in 1% of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects. [See Adverse Reactions (6.4)]. The safety of INVEGA(R) was evaluated in 1205 adult subjects with schizophrenia who participated in three placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials, of whom 850 subjects received INVEGA(R) at fixed doses ranging from 3 mg to 12 mg once daily. The information presented in this section was derived from pooled data from these three trials. Additional safety information from the placebo-controlled phase of the long-term maintenance study, in which subjects received INVEGA(R) at daily doses within the range of 3 mg to 15 mg (n=104), is also included. The safety of INVEGA(R) was evaluated in 150 adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia who received INVEGA(R) in the dose range of 1.5 mg to 12 mg/day in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The safety of INVEGA(R) was also evaluated in 622 adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder who participated in two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials. In one of these trials, 206 subjects were assigned to one of two dose levels of INVEGA(R): 6 mg with the option to reduce to 3 mg (n = 108) or 12 mg with the option to reduce to 9 mg (n = 98) once daily. In the other study, 214 subjects received flexible doses of INVEGA(R) (3-12 mg once daily). Both studies included subjects who received INVEGA(R) either as monotherapy or as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Adverse events during exposure to study treatment were obtained by general inquiry and recorded by clinical investigators using their own terminology. Consequently, to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse events, events were grouped in standardized categories using MedDRA terminology. Throughout this section, adverse reactions are reported. Adverse reactions are adverse events that were considered to be reasonably associated with the use of INVEGA(R) (adverse drug reactions) based on the comprehensive assessment of the available adverse event information. A causal association for INVEGA(R) often cannot be reliably established in individual cases. Further, because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. 6.2 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizophrenia in Adults and Adolescents Adult Patients with Schizophrenia Table 4 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in INVEGA(R)-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 4. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of INVEGA(R)-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia in Three Short-Term, Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the INVEGA(R) dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from three studies; one study included once-daily INVEGA(R) doses of 3 mg and 9 mg, the second study included 6 mg, 9 mg, and 12 mg, and the third study included 6 mg and 12 mg [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, oculogyration, parkinsonism, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Adverse reactions for which the INVEGA(R) incidence was equal to or less than placebo are not listed in the table, but included the following: vomiting. Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 37 48 47 53 59 Cardiac disorders Atrioventricular block first degree 1 2 0 2 1 Bundle branch block 2 3 1 3 <1 Sinus arrhythmia 0 2 1 1 <1 Tachycardia 7 14 12 12 14 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal pain upper 1 1 3 2 2 Dry mouth 1 2 3 1 3 Salivary hypersecretion <1 0 <1 1 4 General disorders Asthenia 1 2 <1 2 2 Fatigue 1 2 1 2 2 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 3 8 10 Dizziness 4 6 5 4 5 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 10 7 20 18 Headache 12 11 12 14 14 Somnolence 7 6 9 10 11 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotension 1 2 1 2 4 Adolescent Patients with Schizophrenia Table 5 lists the adverse reactions reported in a fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in INVEGA(R)-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 5. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of INVEGA(R)-Treated Adolescent Subjects with Schizophrenia in a Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the INVEGA(R) dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms oculogyric crisis, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, nuchal rigidity, torticollis, trismus, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle contractions involuntary, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, tremor, and restlessness. Somnolence includes the terms somnolence, sedation, and hypersomnia. Insomnia includes the terms insomnia and initial insomnia. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Hypertension includes the terms hypertension and blood pressure increased. Gynecomastia includes the terms gynecomastia and breast swelling. Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 1.5 mg once daily 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 43 37 50 58 74 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 0 0 6 9 6 Eye disorders Vision blurred 0 0 0 0 3 Gastrointestinal disorders Dry mouth 2 0 0 0 3 Salivary hypersecretion 0 2 6 2 0 Swollen tongue 0 0 0 0 3 Vomiting 10 0 6 11 3 General disorders Asthenia 0 0 0 2 3 Fatigue 0 4 0 2 3 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 2 4 0 4 0 Investigations Weight increased 0 7 6 2 3 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 0 4 6 11 17 Dizziness 0 2 6 2 3 Extrapyramidal symptoms 0 4 19 18 23 Headache 4 9 6 4 14 Lethargy 0 0 0 0 3 Somnolence 4 9 13 20 26 Tongue paralysis 0 0 0 0 3 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 4 0 0 2 9 Reproductive system and breast disorders Amenorrhea 0 0 6 0 0 Galactorrhea 0 0 0 4 0 Gynecomastia 0 0 0 0 3 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Epistaxis 0 0 0 2 0 6.3 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizoaffective Disorder in Adults Table 6 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) and for which the incidence in INVEGA(R)-treated subjects was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 6. Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by >= 2% of INVEGA(R)-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizoaffective Disorder in Two Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the INVEGA(R) dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from two studies. One study included once-daily INVEGA(R) doses of 6 mg (with the option to reduce to 3 mg) and 12 mg (with the option to reduce to 9 mg). The second study included flexible once-daily doses of 3 to 12 mg. Among the 420 subjects treated with INVEGA(R), 230 (55%) received INVEGA(R) as monotherapy and 190 (45%) received INVEGA(R) as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms bradykinesia, drooling, dyskinesia, dystonia, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle twitching, oculogyration, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, restlessness, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) INVEGA(R) INVEGA(R) Placebo 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose Body System or Organ Class (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 32 48 50 43 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 2 3 1 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal discomfort/Abdominal pain upper 1 1 0 3 Constipation 2 4 5 4 Dyspepsia 2 5 6 6 Nausea 6 8 8 5 Stomach discomfort 1 0 1 2 General disorders Asthenia 1 3 4 <1 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 2 5 3 Rhinitis 0 1 3 1 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 2 2 2 Investigations Weight increased 1 5 4 4 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite <1 1 0 2 Increased appetite <1 3 2 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 1 1 1 3 Myalgia <1 2 4 1 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 6 6 Dysarthria 0 1 4 2 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 20 17 12 Somnolence 5 12 12 8 Psychiatric disorders Sleep disorder <1 2 3 0 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 1 3 1 Pharyngolaryngeal pain <1 0 2 1 Monotherapy versus Adjunctive Therapy The designs of the two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder included the option for subjects to receive antidepressants (except monoamine oxidase inhibitors) and/or mood stabilizers (lithium, valproate, or lamotrigine). In the subject population evaluated for safety, 230 (55%) subjects received INVEGA(R) as monotherapy and 190 (45%) subjects received INVEGA(R) as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. When comparing these 2 subpopulations, only nausea occurred at a greater frequency (>= 3% difference) in subjects receiving INVEGA(R) as monotherapy. 6.4 Discontinuations Due to Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the three schizophrenia placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults were 3% and 1% in INVEGA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were nervous system disorders (2% and 0% in INVEGA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). Among the adverse reactions in the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, only dystonia led to discontinuation (<1% of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects). Schizoaffective Disorder Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the two schizoaffective disorder placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adults were 1% and <1% in INVEGA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were gastrointestinal disorders (1% and 0% in INVEGA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). 6.5 Dose-Related Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials Based on the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with a greater than 2% incidence in the subjects treated with INVEGA(R), the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, akathisia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, parkinsonism, and salivary hypersecretion. For most of these, the increased incidence was seen primarily at the 12 mg dose, and, in some cases, the 9 mg dose. In the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with >2% incidence in the subjects treated with INVEGA(R), the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: tachycardia, akathisia, extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, and headache. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In a placebo-controlled, 6-week, high- and low-dose study in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, akathisia, dystonia, dysarthria, myalgia, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, cough, and pharyngolaryngeal pain occurred more frequently (i.e., a difference of at least 2%) in subjects who received higher doses of INVEGA(R) compared with subjects who received lower doses. 6.6 Demographic Differences An examination of population subgroups in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and in the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder did not reveal any evidence of clinically relevant differences in safety on the basis of gender or race alone; there was also no difference on the basis of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. 6.7 Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia provided information regarding treatment-emergent EPS. Several methods were used to measure EPS: (1) the Simpson-Angus global score (mean change from baseline) which broadly evaluates Parkinsonism, (2) the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global clinical rating score (mean change from baseline) which evaluates akathisia, (3) use of anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS (Table 7), and (4) incidence of spontaneous reports of EPS (Table 8). For the Simpson-Angus Scale, spontaneous EPS reports and use of anticholinergic medications, there was a dose-related increase observed for the 9 mg and 12 mg doses. There was no difference observed between placebo and INVEGA(R) 3 mg and 6 mg doses for any of these EPS measures. Table 7. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Assessed by Incidence of Ratings Scales and Use of Anticholinergic Medication - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Parkinsonism For Parkinsonism, percent of patients with Simpson-Angus global score > 0.3 (Global score defined as total sum of items score divided by the number of items) 9 11 3 15 14 AkathisiaFor Akathisia, percent of patients with Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global score >= 2 6 6 4 7 9 Use of anticholinergic medicationsPercent of patients who received anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS 10 10 9 22 22 Table 8. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle twitching, tardive dyskinesia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration, trismus Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, drooling, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 13 10 25 26 Dyskinesia 3 5 3 8 9 Dystonia 1 1 1 5 5 Hyperkinesia 4 4 3 8 10 Parkinsonism 2 3 3 7 6 Tremor 3 3 3 4 3 Compared to data from the studies in adults subjects with schizophrenia, pooled data from the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder showed similar types and frequencies of EPS as measured by rating scales, anticholinergic medication use, and spontaneous reports of EPS-related adverse events. For subjects with schizoaffective disorder, there was no dose-related increase in EPS observed for parkinsonism with the Simpson-Angus scale or akathisia with the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale. There was a dose-related increase observed with spontaneous EPS reports of hyperkinesia and dystonia and in the use of anticholinergic medications. Table 9 shows the EPS data from the pooled schizoaffective disorder trials. Table 9. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizoaffective Disorder Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose EPS Group (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle twitching Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia, restlessness Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, drooling, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle tightness, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 23 22 17 Dyskinesia 1 3 1 1 Dystonia 1 2 3 2 Hyperkinesia 5 5 8 7 Parkinsonism 3 14 7 7 Tremor 3 12 11 5 The incidences of EPS-related adverse events in the adolescent schizophrenia studies showed a similar dose-related pattern to those in the adult studies. There were notably higher incidences of dystonia, hyperkinesia, tremor, and parkinsonism in the adolescent population as compared to the adult studies (Table 10). Table 10. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adolescent Subjects Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 1.5 mg once daily 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle contracture, oculogyric crisis, tongue paralysis, torticollis Tremor group includes: Tremor Parkinsonism group includes: Cogwheel rigidity, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle rigidity Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle contractions involuntary Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 0 6 25 22 40 Hyperkinesia 0 4 6 11 17 Dystonia 0 2 0 11 14 Tremor 0 2 6 7 11 Parkinsonism 0 0 6 2 14 Dyskinesia 0 2 6 2 6 Dystonia Class Effect: Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. 6.8 Laboratory Test Abnormalities In the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, between-group comparisons revealed no medically important differences between INVEGA(R) and placebo in the proportions of subjects experiencing potentially clinically significant changes in routine serum chemistry, hematology, or urinalysis parameters. Similarly, there were no differences between INVEGA(R) and placebo in the incidence of discontinuations due to changes in hematology, urinalysis, or serum chemistry, including mean changes from baseline in fasting glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglyceride, HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol measurements. However, INVEGA(R) was associated with increases in serum prolactin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 6.9 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During Premarketing Evaluation of INVEGA(R) The following additional adverse reactions occurred in < 2% of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects in the above schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder clinical trial datasets. The following also includes additional adverse reactions reported at any frequency by INVEGA(R)-treated subjects who participated in other clinical studies. Cardiac disorders: bradycardia, palpitations Eye disorders: eye movement disorder Gastrointestinal disorders: flatulence General disorders: edema Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reaction Infections and infestations: urinary tract infection Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, pain in extremity Nervous system disorders: opisthotonus Psychiatric disorders: agitation, insomnia, nightmare Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast discomfort, menstruation irregular, retrograde ejaculation Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: nasal congestion Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: pruritus, rash Vascular disorders: hypertension The safety of INVEGA(R) was also evaluated in a long-term trial designed to assess the maintenance of effect with INVEGA(R) in adults with schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14)]. In general, adverse reaction types, frequencies, and severities during the initial 14-week open-label phase of this study were comparable to those observed in the 6-week, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose studies. Adverse reactions reported during the long-term double-blind phase of this study were similar in type and severity to those observed in the initial 14-week open-label phase. 6.10 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of INVEGA(R); because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency: angioedema, ileus, priapism, swollen tongue, tardive dyskinesia, urinary incontinence, urinary retention. 6.11 Adverse Reactions Reported With Risperidone Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone. Adverse reactions reported with risperidone can be found in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section of the risperidone package insert."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions: An increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (e.g. stroke, transient ischemic attack, including fatalities) has been seen in elderly patients with dementia- related psychoses treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.2) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: Manage with immediate discontinuation of drug and close monitoring. (5.3) QT Prolongation: Increase in QT interval, avoid use with drugs that also increase QT interval and in patients with risk factors for prolonged QT interval. (5.4) Tardive Dyskinesia: Discontinue drug if clinically appropriate. (5.5) Metabolic Changes: Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/ cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and weight gain. (5.6) Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus: Monitor patients for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Monitor glucose regularly in patients with diabetes or at risk for diabetes. (5.6) Dyslipidemia: Undesirable alterations have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.6) Weight Gain: Significant weight gain has been reported. Monitor weight gain. (5.6) Hyperprolactinemia: Prolactin elevations occur and persist during chronic administration. (5.7) Gastrointestinal Narrowing: Obstructive symptoms may result in patients with gastrointestinal disease. (5.8) Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope: Use with caution in patients with known cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease and patients predisposed to hypotension. (5.9) Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis: has been reported with antipsychotics, including INVEGA(R). Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of INVEGA(R) should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. (5.10) Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment: Use caution when operating machinery. (5.11) Seizures: Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold. (5.12) Suicide: Closely supervise high-risk patients. (5.14) 5.1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. INVEGA(R) (paliperidone) is not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients With Dementia-Related Psychosis In placebo-controlled trials with risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine in elderly subjects with dementia, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks) including fatalities compared to placebo-treated subjects. INVEGA(R) was not marketed at the time these studies were performed. INVEGA(R) is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see also Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs, including paliperidone. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases in which the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system pathology. The management of NMS should include: (1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy; (2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring; and (3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient appears to require antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, reintroduction of drug therapy should be closely monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. 5.4 QT Prolongation Paliperidone causes a modest increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. The use of paliperidone should be avoided in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Paliperidone should also be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias. Certain circumstances may increase the risk of the occurrence of torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval, including (1) bradycardia; (2) hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia; (3) concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval; and (4) presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval. The effects of paliperidone on the QT interval were evaluated in a double-blind, active-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg single dose), multicenter QT study in adults with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, and in three placebo- and active-controlled 6-week, fixed-dose efficacy trials in adults with schizophrenia. In the QT study (n = 141), the 8 mg dose of immediate-release oral paliperidone (n=50) showed a mean placebo-subtracted increase from baseline in QTcLD of 12.3 msec (90% CI: 8.9; 15.6) on day 8 at 1.5 hours post-dose. The mean steady-state peak plasma concentration for this 8 mg dose of paliperidone immediate-release was more than twice the exposure observed with the maximum recommended 12 mg dose of INVEGA(R) (Cmax ss = 113 ng/mL and 45 ng/mL, respectively, when administered with a standard breakfast). In this same study, a 4 mg dose of the immediate-release oral formulation of paliperidone, for which Cmax ss = 35 ng/mL, showed an increased placebo-subtracted QTcLD of 6.8 msec (90% CI: 3.6; 10.1) on day 2 at 1.5 hours post-dose. None of the subjects had a change exceeding 60 msec or a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time during this study. For the three fixed-dose efficacy studies in subjects with schizophrenia, electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements taken at various time points showed only one subject in the INVEGA(R) 12 mg group had a change exceeding 60 msec at one time-point on Day 6 (increase of 62 msec). No subject receiving INVEGA(R) had a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time in any of these three studies. 5.5 Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to predict which patients will develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible appear to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase, but the syndrome can develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses, although this is uncommon. There is no known treatment for established tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and may thus mask the underlying process. The effect of symptomatic suppression on the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, INVEGA(R) should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient treated with INVEGA(R), drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment with INVEGA(R) despite the presence of the syndrome. 5.6 Metabolic Changes Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and body weight gain. While all of the drugs in the class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus Hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus, in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, have been reported in patients treated with all atypical antipsychotics. These cases were, for the most part, seen in post-marketing clinical use and epidemiologic studies, not in clinical trials, and there have been few reports of hyperglycemia or diabetes in trial subjects treated with INVEGA(R). Assessment of the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and glucose abnormalities is complicated by the possibility of an increased background risk of diabetes mellitus in patients with schizophrenia and the increasing incidence of diabetes mellitus in the general population. Given these confounders, the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and hyperglycemia-related adverse events is not completely understood. However, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of treatment-emergent hyperglycemia-related adverse events in patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics. Because INVEGA(R) was not marketed at the time these studies were performed, it is not known if INVEGA(R) is associated with this increased risk. Patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Patients with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes) who are starting treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. Any patient treated with atypical antipsychotics should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the atypical antipsychotic was discontinued; however, some patients required continuation of anti-diabetic treatment despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1a. Table 1a. Change in Fasting Glucose from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=322 n=122 n=212 n=234 n=218 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -0.7 0.4 2.3 4.3 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 5.1% 3.2% 4.5% 4.8% 3.8% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (12/236) (3/93) (7/156) (9/187) (6/157) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, INVEGA(R) was associated with a mean change in glucose of +3.3 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=570) and +4.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=314). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1b. Table 1b. Change in Fasting Glucose from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia INVEGA(R) Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=41 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -1.4 -1.8 -0.1 5.2 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 3% 0% 0% 0% 11% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (1/32) (0/34) (0/9) (0/20) (3/27) Dyslipidemia Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2a. Table 2a. Change in Fasting Lipids from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=331 n=120 n=216 n=236 n=231 Change from baseline -6.3 -4.4 -2.4 -5.3 -4.0 LDL n=322 n=116 n=210 n=231 n=225 Change from baseline -3.2 0.5 -0.8 -3.9 -2.0 HDL n=331 n=119 n=216 n=234 n=230 Change from baseline 0.3 -0.4 0.5 0.8 1.2 Triglycerides n=331 n=120 n=216 n=236 n=231 Change from baseline -22.3 -18.3 -12.6 -10.6 -15.4 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 2.6% 2.8% 5.6% 4.1% 3.1% (<200 mg/dL to >=240 mg/dL) (5/194) (2/71) (7/125) (6/147) (4/130) LDL Normal to High 1.9% 0.0% 5.0% 3.7% 0.0% (<100 mg/dL to >=160 mg/dL) (2/105) (0/44) (3/60) (3/81) (0/69) HDL Normal to Low 22.0% 16.3% 29.1% 23.4% 20.0% ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (44/200) (13/80) (39/134) (32/137) (27/135) Triglycerides Normal to High 5.3% 11.0% 8.8% 8.7% 4.3% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (11/208) (9/82) (12/136) (13/150) (6/139) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, INVEGA(R) was associated with a mean change in (a) total cholesterol of -1.5 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -1.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317), (b) triglycerides of -6.4 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -10.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317); (c) LDL of -1.9 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=557) and -2.7 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=297); and (d) HDL of +2.2 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=568) and +3.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=302). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2b. Table 2b. Change in Fasting Lipids from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia INVEGA(R) Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=39 n=45 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -7.8 -3.3 12.7 3.0 -1.5 LDL n=37 n=40 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -4.1 -3.1 7.2 2.4 0.6 HDL n=37 n=41 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -1.9 0.0 1.3 1.4 0.0 Triglycerides n=39 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -8.9 3.2 17.6 -5.4 3.9 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 7% 4% 0% 6% 11% (<170 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (2/27) (1/26) (0/6) (1/18) (2/19) LDL Normal to High 3% 4% 14% 0% 9% (<110 mg/dL to >=130 mg/dL) (1/32) (1/25) (1/7) (0/22) (2/22) HDL Normal to Low 14% 7% 29% 13% 23% ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (4/28) (2/30) (2/7) (3/23) (5/22) Triglycerides Normal to High 3% 5% 13% 8% 7% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (1/34) (2/38) (1/8) (2/26) (2/28) Weight Gain Weight gain has been observed with atypical antipsychotic use. Clinical monitoring of weight is recommended. Schizophrenia Trials Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects are presented in Table 3a. Table 3a. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day n=323 n=112 n=215 n=235 n=218 Weight (kg) Change from baseline -0.4 0.6 0.6 1.0 1.1 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 5% 7% 6% 9% 9% In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, INVEGA(R) was associated with a mean change in weight of +1.4 kg at Week 24 (n=63) and +2.6 kg at Week 52 (n=302). Weight gain in adolescent subjects with schizophrenia was assessed in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study and an open-label extension with a median duration of exposure to INVEGA(R) of 182 days. Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) are presented in Table 3b. Table 3b. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia INVEGA(R) Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day n=51 n=54 n=16 n=45 n=34 Weight (kg) Change from baseline 0.0 0.3 0.8 1.2 1.5 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 2% 6% 19% 7% 18% In the open-label long-term study the proportion of total subjects treated with INVEGA(R) with an increase in body weight of >= 7% from baseline was 33%. When treating adolescent patients with INVEGA(R), weight gain should be assessed against that expected with normal growth. When taking into consideration the median duration of exposure to INVEGA(R) in the open-label study (182 days) along with expected normal growth in this population based on age and gender, an assessment of standardized scores relative to normative data provides a more clinically relevant measure of changes in weight. The mean change from open-label baseline to endpoint in standardized score for weight was 0.1 (4% above the median for normative data). Based on comparison to the normative data, these changes are not considered to be clinically significant. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In the pooled data from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, a higher percentage of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects (5%) had an increase in body weight of >= 7% compared with placebo-treated subjects (1%). In the study that examined high- and low-dose groups, the increase in body weight of >= 7% was 3% in the low-dose group, 7% in the high-dose group, and 1% in the placebo group. 5.7 Hyperprolactinemia Like other drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, paliperidone elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration. Paliperidone has a prolactin-elevating effect similar to that seen with risperidone, a drug that is associated with higher levels of prolactin than other antipsychotic drugs. Hyperprolactinemia, regardless of etiology, may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence have been reported in patients receiving prolactin-elevating compounds. Long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male subjects. Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin dependent in vitro, a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is considered in a patient with previously detected breast cancer. An increase in the incidence of pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasia (mammary adenocarcinomas, pituitary and pancreatic adenomas) was observed in the risperidone carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date have shown an association between chronic administration of this class of drugs and tumorigenesis in humans, but the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive. 5.8 Potential for Gastrointestinal Obstruction Because the INVEGA(R) tablet is non-deformable and does not appreciably change in shape in the gastrointestinal tract, INVEGA(R) should ordinarily not be administered to patients with pre-existing severe gastrointestinal narrowing (pathologic or iatrogenic, for example: esophageal motility disorders, small bowel inflammatory disease, \"short gut\" syndrome due to adhesions or decreased transit time, past history of peritonitis, cystic fibrosis, chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, or Meckel's diverticulum). There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of drugs in non-deformable controlled-release formulations. Because of the controlled-release design of the tablet, INVEGA(R) should only be used in patients who are able to swallow the tablet whole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Patient Counseling Information (17.8)]. A decrease in transit time, e.g., as seen with diarrhea, would be expected to decrease bioavailability and an increase in transit time, e.g., as seen with gastrointestinal neuropathy, diabetic gastroparesis, or other causes, would be expected to increase bioavailability. These changes in bioavailability are more likely when the changes in transit time occur in the upper GI tract. 5.9 Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Paliperidone can induce orthostatic hypotension and syncope in some patients because of its alpha-blocking activity. In pooled results of the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose trials in subjects with schizophrenia, syncope was reported in 0.8% (7/850) of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) compared to 0.3% (1/355) of subjects treated with placebo. INVEGA(R) should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, history of myocardial infarction or ischemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension. 5.10 Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis Class Effect: In clinical trial and/or postmarketing experience, events of leukopenia/neutropenia have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents, including INVEGA(R). Agranulocytosis has also been reported. Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC) and history of drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low WBC or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of INVEGA(R) should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1000/mm3) should discontinue INVEGA(R) and have their WBC followed until recovery. 5.11 Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment Somnolence was reported in subjects treated with INVEGA(R) [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)]. Antipsychotics, including INVEGA(R), have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Patients should be cautioned about performing activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating hazardous machinery or operating a motor vehicle, until they are reasonably certain that paliperidone therapy does not adversely affect them. 5.12 Seizures During premarketing clinical trials in subjects with schizophrenia (the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies and a study conducted in elderly schizophrenic subjects), seizures occurred in 0.22% of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) and 0.25% of subjects treated with placebo. Like other antipsychotic drugs, INVEGA(R) should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. 5.13 Dysphagia Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with advanced Alzheimer's dementia. INVEGA(R) and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration pneumonia. 5.14 Suicide The possibility of suicide attempt is inherent in psychotic illnesses, and close supervision of high-risk patients should accompany drug therapy. Prescriptions for INVEGA(R) should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose. 5.15 Priapism Drugs with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have been reported to induce priapism. Priapism has been reported with INVEGA(R) during postmarketing surveillance. Severe priapism may require surgical intervention. 5.16 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) No cases of TTP were observed during clinical studies with paliperidone. Although cases of TTP have been reported in association with risperidone administration, the relationship to risperidone therapy is unknown. 5.17 Body Temperature Regulation Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing INVEGA(R) to patients who will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration. 5.18 Antiemetic Effect An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain drugs or of conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye's syndrome, and brain tumor. 5.19 Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness Clinical experience with INVEGA(R) in patients with certain concomitant illnesses is limited [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies are reported to have an increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medication. Manifestations of this increased sensitivity include confusion, obtundation, postural instability with frequent falls, extrapyramidal symptoms, and clinical features consistent with the neuroleptic malignant syndrome. INVEGA(R) has not been evaluated or used to any appreciable extent in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable heart disease. Patients with these diagnoses were excluded from premarketing clinical trials. Because of the risk of orthostatic hypotension with INVEGA(R), caution should be observed in patients with known cardiovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. 5.20 Monitoring: Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are recommended."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Paliperidone&limit=1&skip=6
Page 6 of 11
        "generic_name": [
          "PALIPERIDONE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Paliperidone"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Centrally-acting drugs: Due to CNS effects, use caution in combination. Avoid alcohol. (7.1) Drugs that may cause orthostatic hypotension: An additive effect may be observed when co-administered with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets. (7.1) Strong CYP3A4/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducers: It may be necessary to increase the dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets when a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine) is co-administered. Conversely, on discontinuation of the strong inducer, it may be necessary to decrease the dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets. (7.2) Co-administration of divalproex sodium increased Cmax and AUC of paliperidone by approximately 50%. Adjust dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets if necessary based on clinical assessment. (7.2) 7.1 Potential for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets to Affect Other Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of paliperidone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)], Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Paliperidone may antagonize the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension, an additive effect may be observed when Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes. In vitro studies in human liver microsomes showed that paliperidone does not substantially inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5. Therefore, paliperidone is not expected to inhibit clearance of drugs that are metabolized by these metabolic pathways in a clinically relevant manner. Paliperidone is also not expected to have enzyme inducing properties. Paliperidone is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) at high concentrations. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets is unlikely. In a drug interaction study, co-administration of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (12 mg once daily for 5 days) with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (500 mg to 2000 mg once daily) did not affect the steady-state pharmacokinetics (AUC24h and Cmax,ss) of valproate in 13 patients stabilized on valproate. In a clinical study, subjects on stable doses of valproate had comparable valproate average plasma concentrations when Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 3-15 mg/day were added to their existing valproate treatment. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Paliperidone is not a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, so that an interaction with inhibitors or inducers of these isozymes is unlikely. While in vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone metabolism, in vivo studies do not show decreased elimination by these isozymes and they contribute to only a small fraction of total body clearance. In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate. Co-administration of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 6 mg once daily with carbamazepine, a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp), at 200 mg twice daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone. A minor decrease in the amount of drug excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be re-evaluated and increased if necessary. Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be re-evaluated and decreased if necessary. Paliperidone is metabolized to a limited extent by CYP2D6 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In an interaction study in healthy subjects in which a single 3 mg dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was administered concomitantly with 20 mg per day of paroxetine (a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor), paliperidone exposures were on average 16% (90% CI: 4, 30) higher in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers. Higher doses of paroxetine have not been studied. The clinical relevance is unknown. Co-administration of a single dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 12 mg with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. Dosage reduction for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be considered when Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are co-administered with valproate after clinical assessment. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets is unlikely."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence >= 5% and at least twice that for placebo) were (6) Adults with schizophrenia: extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. Adolescents with schizophrenia: somnolence, akathisia, tremor, dystonia, cogwheel rigidity, anxiety, weight increased, and tachycardia. Adults with schizoaffective disorder: extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Patriot Pharmaceuticals, LLC at 1-800-667-8570 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Overall Adverse Reaction Profile The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cerebrovascular adverse reactions, including stroke, in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Tardive dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Metabolic changes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hyperprolactinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Potential for gastrointestinal obstruction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Orthostatic hypotension and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Potential for cognitive and motor impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Dysphagia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Suicide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)] Disruption of body temperature regulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)] Antiemetic effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18)] Increased sensitivity in patients with Parkinson's disease or those with dementia with Lewy bodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] Diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and at least twice the placebo rate in any of the dose groups) were extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult patients with schizoaffective disorder (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and at least twice the placebo rate) were extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (causing discontinuation in 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects) were nervous system disorders. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder were gastrointestinal disorders, which resulted in discontinuation in 1% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects. [See Adverse Reactions (6.4)]. The safety of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was evaluated in 1205 adult subjects with schizophrenia who participated in three placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials, of whom 850 subjects received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets at fixed doses ranging from 3 mg to 12 mg once daily. The information presented in this section was derived from pooled data from these three trials. Additional safety information from the placebo-controlled phase of the long-term maintenance study, in which subjects received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets at daily doses within the range of 3 mg to 15 mg (n=104), is also included. The safety of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was evaluated in 150 adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia who received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in the dose range of 1.5 mg to 12 mg/day in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The safety of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was also evaluated in 622 adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder who participated in two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials. In one of these trials, 206 subjects were assigned to one of two dose levels of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets: 6 mg with the option to reduce to 3 mg (n = 108) or 12 mg with the option to reduce to 9 mg (n = 98) once daily. In the other study, 214 subjects received flexible doses of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (3-12 mg once daily). Both studies included subjects who received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets either as monotherapy or as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Adverse events during exposure to study treatment were obtained by general inquiry and recorded by clinical investigators using their own terminology. Consequently, to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse events, events were grouped in standardized categories using MedDRA terminology. Throughout this section, adverse reactions are reported. Adverse reactions are adverse events that were considered to be reasonably associated with the use of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (adverse drug reactions) based on the comprehensive assessment of the available adverse event information. A causal association for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets often cannot be reliably established in individual cases. Further, because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. 6.2 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizophrenia in Adults and Adolescents Adult Patients with Schizophrenia Table 4 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 4. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia in Three Short-Term, Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from three studies; one study included once-daily Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets doses of 3 mg and 9 mg, the second study included 6 mg, 9 mg, and 12 mg, and the third study included 6 mg and 12 mg [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, oculogyration, parkinsonism, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Adverse reactions for which the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets incidence was equal to or less than placebo are not listed in the table, but included the following: vomiting. Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 37 48 47 53 59 Cardiac disorders Atrioventricular block first degree 1 2 0 2 1 Bundle branch block 2 3 1 3 <1 Sinus arrhythmia 0 2 1 1 <1 Tachycardia 7 14 12 12 14 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal pain upper 1 1 3 2 2 Dry mouth 1 2 3 1 3 Salivary hypersecretion <1 0 <1 1 4 General disorders Asthenia 1 2 <1 2 2 Fatigue 1 2 1 2 2 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 3 8 10 Dizziness 4 6 5 4 5 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 10 7 20 18 Headache 12 11 12 14 14 Somnolence 7 6 9 10 11 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotension 1 2 1 2 4 Adolescent Patients with Schizophrenia Table 5 lists the adverse reactions reported in a fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 5. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Adolescent Subjects with Schizophrenia in a Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms oculogyric crisis, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, nuchal rigidity, torticollis, trismus, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle contractions involuntary, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, tremor, and restlessness. Somnolence includes the terms somnolence, sedation, and hypersomnia. Insomnia includes the terms insomnia and initial insomnia. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Hypertension includes the terms hypertension and blood pressure increased. Gynecomastia includes the terms gynecomastia and breast swelling. Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg once daily 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 43 37 50 58 74 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 0 0 6 9 6 Eye disorders Vision blurred 0 0 0 0 3 Gastrointestinal disorders Dry mouth 2 0 0 0 3 Salivary hypersecretion 0 2 6 2 0 Swollen tongue 0 0 0 0 3 Vomiting 10 0 6 11 3 General disorders Asthenia 0 0 0 2 3 Fatigue 0 4 0 2 3 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 2 4 0 4 0 Investigations Weight increased 0 7 6 2 3 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 0 4 6 11 17 Dizziness 0 2 6 2 3 Extrapyramidal symptoms 0 4 19 18 23 Headache 4 9 6 4 14 Lethargy 0 0 0 0 3 Somnolence 4 9 13 20 26 Tongue paralysis 0 0 0 0 3 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 4 0 0 2 9 Reproductive system and breast disorders Amenorrhea 0 0 6 0 0 Galactorrhea 0 0 0 4 0 Gynecomastia 0 0 0 0 3 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Epistaxis 0 0 0 2 0 6.3 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizoaffective Disorder in Adults Table 6 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and for which the incidence in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 6. Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizoaffective Disorder in Two Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from two studies. One study included once-daily Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets doses of 6 mg (with the option to reduce to 3 mg) and 12 mg (with the option to reduce to 9 mg). The second study included flexible once-daily doses of 3 to 12 mg. Among the 420 subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, 230 (55%) received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as monotherapy and 190 (45%) received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms bradykinesia, drooling, dyskinesia, dystonia, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle twitching, oculogyration, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, restlessness, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Percentage of Patients Placebo Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose Body System or Organ Class (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 32 48 50 43 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 2 3 1 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal discomfort/Abdominal pain upper 1 1 0 3 Constipation 2 4 5 4 Dyspepsia 2 5 6 6 Nausea 6 8 8 5 Stomach discomfort 1 0 1 2 General disorders Asthenia 1 3 4 <1 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 2 5 3 Rhinitis 0 1 3 1 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 2 2 2 Investigations Weight increased 1 5 4 4 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite <1 1 0 2 Increased appetite <1 3 2 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 1 1 1 3 Myalgia <1 2 4 1 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 6 6 Dysarthria 0 1 4 2 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 20 17 12 Somnolence 5 12 12 8 Psychiatric disorders Sleep disorder <1 2 3 0 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 1 3 1 Pharyngolaryngeal pain <1 0 2 1 Monotherapy versus Adjunctive Therapy The designs of the two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder included the option for subjects to receive antidepressants (except monoamine oxidase inhibitors) and/or mood stabilizers (lithium, valproate, or lamotrigine). In the subject population evaluated for safety, 230 (55%) subjects received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as monotherapy and 190 (45%) subjects received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. When comparing these 2 subpopulations, only nausea occurred at a greater frequency (>= 3% difference) in subjects receiving Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as monotherapy. 6.4 Discontinuations Due to Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the three schizophrenia placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults were 3% and 1% in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were nervous system disorders (2% and 0% in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). Among the adverse reactions in the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, only dystonia led to discontinuation (<1% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects). Schizoaffective Disorder Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the two schizoaffective disorder placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adults were 1% and <1% in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were gastrointestinal disorders (1% and 0% in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). 6.5 Dose-Related Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials Based on the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with a greater than 2% incidence in the subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, akathisia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, parkinsonism, and salivary hypersecretion. For most of these, the increased incidence was seen primarily at the 12 mg dose, and, in some cases, the 9 mg dose. In the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with >2% incidence in the subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: tachycardia, akathisia, extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, and headache. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In a placebo-controlled, 6-week, high- and low-dose study in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, akathisia, dystonia, dysarthria, myalgia, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, cough, and pharyngolaryngeal pain occurred more frequently (i.e., a difference of at least 2%) in subjects who received higher doses of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets compared with subjects who received lower doses. 6.6 Demographic Differences An examination of population subgroups in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and in the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder did not reveal any evidence of clinically relevant differences in safety on the basis of gender or race alone; there was also no difference on the basis of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. 6.7 Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia provided information regarding treatment-emergent EPS. Several methods were used to measure EPS: (1) the Simpson-Angus global score (mean change from baseline) which broadly evaluates Parkinsonism, (2) the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global clinical rating score (mean change from baseline) which evaluates akathisia, (3) use of anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS (Table 7), and (4) incidence of spontaneous reports of EPS (Table 8). For the Simpson-Angus Scale, spontaneous EPS reports and use of anticholinergic medications, there was a dose-related increase observed for the 9 mg and 12 mg doses. There was no difference observed between placebo and Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 3 mg and 6 mg doses for any of these EPS measures. Table 7. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Assessed by Incidence of Ratings Scales and Use of Anticholinergic Medication - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) ParkinsonismFor Parkinsonism, percent of patients with Simpson-Angus global score > 0.3 (Global score defined as total sum of items score divided by the number of items) 9 11 3 15 14 AkathisiaFor Akathisia, percent of patients with Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global score >= 2 6 6 4 7 9 Use of anticholinergic medicationsPercent of patients who received anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS 10 10 9 22 22 Table 8. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle twitching, tardive dyskinesia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration, trismus Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, drooling, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 13 10 25 26 Dyskinesia 3 5 3 8 9 Dystonia 1 1 1 5 5 Hyperkinesia 4 4 3 8 10 Parkinsonism 2 3 3 7 6 Tremor 3 3 3 4 3 Compared to data from the studies in adults subjects with schizophrenia, pooled data from the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder showed similar types and frequencies of EPS as measured by rating scales, anticholinergic medication use, and spontaneous reports of EPS-related adverse events. For subjects with schizoaffective disorder, there was no dose-related increase in EPS observed for parkinsonism with the Simpson-Angus scale or akathisia with the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale. There was a dose-related increase observed with spontaneous EPS reports of hyperkinesia and dystonia and in the use of anticholinergic medications. Table 9 shows the EPS data from the pooled schizoaffective disorder trials. Table 9. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizoaffective Disorder Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose EPS Group (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle twitching Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia, restlessness Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, drooling, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle tightness, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 23 22 17 Dyskinesia 1 3 1 1 Dystonia 1 2 3 2 Hyperkinesia 5 5 8 7 Parkinsonism 3 14 7 7 Tremor 3 12 11 5 The incidences of EPS-related adverse events in the adolescent schizophrenia studies showed a similar dose-related pattern to those in the adult studies. There were notably higher incidences of dystonia, hyperkinesia, tremor, and parkinsonism in the adolescent population as compared to the adult studies (Table 10). Table 10. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adolescent Subjects Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg once daily 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle contracture, oculogyric crisis, tongue paralysis, torticollis Tremor group includes: Tremor Parkinsonism group includes: Cogwheel rigidity, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle rigidity Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle contractions involuntary Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 0 6 25 22 40 Hyperkinesia 0 4 6 11 17 Dystonia 0 2 0 11 14 Tremor 0 2 6 7 11 Parkinsonism 0 0 6 2 14 Dyskinesia 0 2 6 2 6 Dystonia Class Effect: Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. 6.8 Laboratory Test Abnormalities In the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, between-group comparisons revealed no medically important differences between Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and placebo in the proportions of subjects experiencing potentially clinically significant changes in routine serum chemistry, hematology, or urinalysis parameters. Similarly, there were no differences between Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and placebo in the incidence of discontinuations due to changes in hematology, urinalysis, or serum chemistry, including mean changes from baseline in fasting glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglyceride, HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol measurements. However, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were associated with increases in serum prolactin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 6.9 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During Premarketing Evaluation of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets The following additional adverse reactions occurred in < 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects in the above schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder clinical trial datasets. The following also includes additional adverse reactions reported at any frequency by Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects who participated in other clinical studies. Cardiac disorders: bradycardia, palpitations Eye disorders: eye movement disorder Gastrointestinal disorders: flatulence General disorders: edema Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reaction Infections and infestations: urinary tract infection Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, pain in extremity Nervous system disorders: opisthotonus Psychiatric disorders: agitation, insomnia, nightmare Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast discomfort, menstruation irregular, retrograde ejaculation Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: nasal congestion Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: pruritus, rash Vascular disorders: hypertension The safety of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was also evaluated in a long-term trial designed to assess the maintenance of effect with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in adults with schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14)]. In general, adverse reaction types, frequencies, and severities during the initial 14-week open-label phase of this study were comparable to those observed in the 6-week, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose studies. Adverse reactions reported during the long-term double-blind phase of this study were similar in type and severity to those observed in the initial 14-week open-label phase. 6.10 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets; because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency: angioedema, ileus, priapism, swollen tongue, tardive dyskinesia, urinary incontinence, urinary retention. 6.11 Adverse Reactions Reported With Risperidone Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone. Adverse reactions reported with risperidone can be found in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section of the risperidone package insert."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions: An increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (e.g. stroke, transient ischemic attack, including fatalities) has been seen in elderly patients with dementia- related psychoses treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.2) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: Manage with immediate discontinuation of drug and close monitoring. (5.3) QT Prolongation: Increase in QT interval, avoid use with drugs that also increase QT interval and in patients with risk factors for prolonged QT interval. (5.4) Tardive Dyskinesia: Discontinue drug if clinically appropriate. (5.5) Metabolic Changes: Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/ cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and weight gain. (5.6) Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus: Monitor patients for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Monitor glucose regularly in patients with diabetes or at risk for diabetes. (5.6) Dyslipidemia: Undesirable alterations have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.6) Weight Gain: Significant weight gain has been reported. Monitor weight gain. (5.6) Hyperprolactinemia: Prolactin elevations occur and persist during chronic administration. (5.7) Gastrointestinal Narrowing: Obstructive symptoms may result in patients with gastrointestinal disease. (5.8) Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope: Use with caution in patients with known cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease and patients predisposed to hypotension. (5.9) Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis: has been reported with antipsychotics, including paliperidone. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. (5.10) Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment: Use caution when operating machinery. (5.11) Seizures: Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold. (5.12) Suicide: Closely supervise high-risk patients. (5.14) 5.1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients With Dementia-Related Psychosis In placebo-controlled trials with risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine in elderly subjects with dementia, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks) including fatalities compared to placebo-treated subjects. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were not marketed at the time these studies were performed. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see also Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs, including paliperidone. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases in which the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system pathology. The management of NMS should include: (1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy; (2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring; and (3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient appears to require antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, reintroduction of drug therapy should be closely monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. 5.4 QT Prolongation Paliperidone causes a modest increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. The use of paliperidone should be avoided in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Paliperidone should also be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias. Certain circumstances may increase the risk of the occurrence of torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval, including (1) bradycardia; (2) hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia; (3) concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval; and (4) presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval. The effects of paliperidone on the QT interval were evaluated in a double-blind, active-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg single dose), multicenter QT study in adults with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, and in three placebo- and active-controlled 6-week, fixed-dose efficacy trials in adults with schizophrenia. In the QT study (n = 141), the 8 mg dose of immediate-release oral paliperidone (n=50) showed a mean placebo-subtracted increase from baseline in QTcLD of 12.3 msec (90% CI: 8.9; 15.6) on day 8 at 1.5 hours post-dose. The mean steady-state peak plasma concentration for this 8 mg dose of paliperidone immediate-release was more than twice the exposure observed with the maximum recommended 12 mg dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (Cmax ss = 113 ng/mL and 45 ng/mL, respectively, when administered with a standard breakfast). In this same study, a 4 mg dose of the immediate-release oral formulation of paliperidone, for which Cmax ss = 35 ng/mL, showed an increased placebo-subtracted QTcLD of 6.8 msec (90% CI: 3.6; 10.1) on day 2 at 1.5 hours post-dose. None of the subjects had a change exceeding 60 msec or a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time during this study. For the three fixed-dose efficacy studies in subjects with schizophrenia, electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements taken at various time points showed only one subject in the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 12 mg group had a change exceeding 60 msec at one time-point on Day 6 (increase of 62 msec). No subject receiving Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets had a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time in any of these three studies. 5.5 Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to predict which patients will develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible appear to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase, but the syndrome can develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses, although this is uncommon. There is no known treatment for established tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and may thus mask the underlying process. The effect of symptomatic suppression on the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets despite the presence of the syndrome. 5.6 Metabolic Changes Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and body weight gain. While all of the drugs in the class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus Hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus, in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, have been reported in patients treated with all atypical antipsychotics. These cases were, for the most part, seen in post-marketing clinical use and epidemiologic studies, not in clinical trials, and there have been few reports of hyperglycemia or diabetes in trial subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets. Assessment of the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and glucose abnormalities is complicated by the possibility of an increased background risk of diabetes mellitus in patients with schizophrenia and the increasing incidence of diabetes mellitus in the general population. Given these confounders, the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and hyperglycemia-related adverse events is not completely understood. However, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of treatment-emergent hyperglycemia-related adverse events in patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics. Because Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were not marketed at the time these studies were performed, it is not known if Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are associated with this increased risk. Patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Patients with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes) who are starting treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. Any patient treated with atypical antipsychotics should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the atypical antipsychotic was discontinued; however, some patients required continuation of anti-diabetic treatment despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1a. Table 1a. Change in Fasting Glucose from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=322 n=122 n=212 n=234 n=218 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -0.7 0.4 2.3 4.3 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 5.1% 3.2% 4.5% 4.8% 3.8% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (12/236) (3/93) (7/156) (9/187) (6/157) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were associated with a mean change in glucose of +3.3 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=570) and +4.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=314). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1b. Table 1b. Change in Fasting Glucose from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=41 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -1.4 -1.8 -0.1 5.2 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 3% 0% 0% 0% 11% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (1/32) (0/34) (0/9) (0/20) (3/27) Dyslipidemia Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2a. Table 2a. Change in Fasting Lipids from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=331 n=120 n=216 n=236 n=231 Change from baseline -6.3 -4.4 -2.4 -5.3 -4.0 LDL n=322 n=116 n=210 n=231 n=225 Change from baseline -3.2 0.5 -0.8 -3.9 -2.0 HDL n=331 n=119 n=216 n=234 n=230 Change from baseline 0.3 -0.4 0.5 0.8 1.2 Triglycerides n=331 n=120 n=216 n=236 n=231 Change from baseline -22.3 -18.3 -12.6 -10.6 -15.4 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 2.6% 2.8% 5.6% 4.1% 3.1% (<200 mg/dL to >=240 mg/dL) (5/194) (2/71) (7/125) (6/147) (4/130) LDL Normal to High 1.9% 0.0% 5.0% 3.7% 0.0% (<100 mg/dL to >=160 mg/dL) (2/105) (0/44) (3/60) (3/81) (0/69) HDL Normal to Low 22.0% 16.3% 29.1% 23.4% 20.0% ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (44/200) (13/80) (39/134) (32/137) (27/135) Triglycerides Normal to High 5.3% 11.0% 8.8% 8.7% 4.3% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (11/208) (9/82) (12/136) (13/150) (6/139) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were associated with a mean change in (a) total cholesterol of -1.5 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -1.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317), (b) triglycerides of -6.4 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -10.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317); (c) LDL of -1.9 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=557) and -2.7 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=297); and (d) HDL of +2.2 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=568) and +3.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=302). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2b. Table 2b. Change in Fasting Lipids from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=39 n=45 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -7.8 -3.3 12.7 3.0 -1.5 LDL n=37 n=40 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -4.1 -3.1 7.2 2.4 0.6 HDL n=37 n=41 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -1.9 0.0 1.3 1.4 0.0 Triglycerides n=39 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -8.9 3.2 17.6 -5.4 3.9 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 7% 4% 0% 6% 11% (<170 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (2/27) (1/26) (0/6) (1/18) (2/19) LDL Normal to High 3% 4% 14% 0% 9% (<110 mg/dL to >=130 mg/dL) (1/32) (1/25) (1/7) (0/22) (2/22) HDL Normal to Low 14% 7% 29% 13% 23% ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (4/28) (2/30) (2/7) (3/23) (5/22) Triglycerides Normal to High 3% 5% 13% 8% 7% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (1/34) (2/38) (1/8) (2/26) (2/28) Weight Gain Weight gain has been observed with atypical antipsychotic use. Clinical monitoring of weight is recommended. Schizophrenia Trials Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects are presented in Table 3a. Table 3a. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day n=323 n=112 n=215 n=235 n=218 Weight (kg) Change from baseline -0.4 0.6 0.6 1.0 1.1 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 5% 7% 6% 9% 9% In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were associated with a mean change in weight of +1.4 kg at Week 24 (n=63) and +2.6 kg at Week 52 (n=302). Weight gain in adolescent subjects with schizophrenia was assessed in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study and an open-label extension with a median duration of exposure to Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets of 182 days. Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) are presented in Table 3b. Table 3b. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day n=51 n=54 n=16 n=45 n=34 Weight (kg) Change from baseline 0.0 0.3 0.8 1.2 1.5 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 2% 6% 19% 7% 18% In the open-label long-term study the proportion of total subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets with an increase in body weight of >= 7% from baseline was 33%. When treating adolescent patients with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, weight gain should be assessed against that expected with normal growth. When taking into consideration the median duration of exposure to Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in the open-label study (182 days) along with expected normal growth in this population based on age and gender, an assessment of standardized scores relative to normative data provides a more clinically relevant measure of changes in weight. The mean change from open-label baseline to endpoint in standardized score for weight was 0.1 (4% above the median for normative data). Based on comparison to the normative data, these changes are not considered to be clinically significant. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In the pooled data from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, a higher percentage of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects (5%) had an increase in body weight of >= 7% compared with placebo-treated subjects (1%). In the study that examined high- and low-dose groups, the increase in body weight of >= 7% was 3% in the low-dose group, 7% in the high-dose group, and 1% in the placebo group. 5.7 Hyperprolactinemia Like other drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, paliperidone elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration. Paliperidone has a prolactin-elevating effect similar to that seen with risperidone, a drug that is associated with higher levels of prolactin than other antipsychotic drugs. Hyperprolactinemia, regardless of etiology, may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence have been reported in patients receiving prolactin-elevating compounds. Long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male subjects. Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin dependent in vitro, a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is considered in a patient with previously detected breast cancer. An increase in the incidence of pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasia (mammary adenocarcinomas, pituitary and pancreatic adenomas) was observed in the risperidone carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date have shown an association between chronic administration of this class of drugs and tumorigenesis in humans, but the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive. 5.8 Potential for Gastrointestinal Obstruction Because Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are non-deformable and do not appreciably change in shape in the gastrointestinal tract, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should ordinarily not be administered to patients with pre-existing severe gastrointestinal narrowing (pathologic or iatrogenic, for example: esophageal motility disorders, small bowel inflammatory disease, \"short gut\" syndrome due to adhesions or decreased transit time, past history of peritonitis, cystic fibrosis, chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, or Meckel's diverticulum). There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of drugs in non-deformable controlled-release formulations. Because of the controlled-release design of the tablet, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should only be used in patients who are able to swallow the tablet whole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Patient Counseling Information (17.8)]. A decrease in transit time, e.g., as seen with diarrhea, would be expected to decrease bioavailability and an increase in transit time, e.g., as seen with gastrointestinal neuropathy, diabetic gastroparesis, or other causes, would be expected to increase bioavailability. These changes in bioavailability are more likely when the changes in transit time occur in the upper GI tract. 5.9 Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Paliperidone can induce orthostatic hypotension and syncope in some patients because of its alpha-blocking activity. In pooled results of the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose trials in subjects with schizophrenia, syncope was reported in 0.8% (7/850) of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) compared to 0.3% (1/355) of subjects treated with placebo. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, history of myocardial infarction or ischemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension. 5.10 Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis Class Effect: In clinical trial and/or postmarketing experience, events of leukopenia/neutropenia have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents, including Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets. Agranulocytosis has also been reported. Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC) and history of drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low WBC or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1000/mm3) should discontinue Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and have their WBC followed until recovery. 5.11 Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment Somnolence was reported in subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)]. Antipsychotics, including Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Patients should be cautioned about performing activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating hazardous machinery or operating a motor vehicle, until they are reasonably certain that paliperidone therapy does not adversely affect them. 5.12 Seizures During premarketing clinical trials in subjects with schizophrenia (the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies and a study conducted in elderly schizophrenic subjects), seizures occurred in 0.22% of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) and 0.25% of subjects treated with placebo. Like other antipsychotic drugs, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. 5.13 Dysphagia Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with advanced Alzheimer's dementia. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration pneumonia. 5.14 Suicide The possibility of suicide attempt is inherent in psychotic illnesses, and close supervision of high-risk patients should accompany drug therapy. Prescriptions for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose. 5.15 Priapism Drugs with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have been reported to induce priapism. Priapism has been reported with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets during postmarketing surveillance. Severe priapism may require surgical intervention. 5.16 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) No cases of TTP were observed during clinical studies with paliperidone. Although cases of TTP have been reported in association with risperidone administration, the relationship to risperidone therapy is unknown. 5.17 Body Temperature Regulation Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets to patients who will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration. 5.18 Antiemetic Effect An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain drugs or of conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye's syndrome, and brain tumor. 5.19 Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness Clinical experience with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in patients with certain concomitant illnesses is limited [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies are reported to have an increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medication. Manifestations of this increased sensitivity include confusion, obtundation, postural instability with frequent falls, extrapyramidal symptoms, and clinical features consistent with the neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets have not been evaluated or used to any appreciable extent in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable heart disease. Patients with these diagnoses were excluded from premarketing clinical trials. Because of the risk of orthostatic hypotension with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, caution should be observed in patients with known cardiovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. 5.20 Monitoring: Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are recommended."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Paliperidone&limit=1&skip=7
Page 7 of 11
        "generic_name": [
          "PALIPERIDONE"
        "brand_name": [
          "INVEGA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Centrally-acting drugs: Due to CNS effects, use caution in combination. Avoid alcohol. ( ) 7.1 Drugs that may cause orthostatic hypotension: An additive effect may be observed when co-administered with INVEGA . ( ) (R) 7.1 Strong CYP3A4/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducers: It may be necessary to increase the dose of INVEGA when a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine) is co-administered. Conversely, on discontinuation of the strong inducer, it may be necessary to decrease the dose of INVEGA . ( ) (R) (R) 7.2 Co-administration of divalproex sodium increased Cmax and AUC of paliperidone by approximately 50%. Adjust dose of INVEGA if necessary based on clinical assessment. ( ) (R) 7.2 7.1 Potential for INVEGA to Affect Other Drugs (R) Given the primary CNS effects of paliperidone , INVEGA should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Paliperidone may antagonize the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. [see , )] Adverse Reactions (6.1 6.2 (R) Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension, an additive effect may be observed when INVEGA is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential . (R) [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.9) Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes. studies in human liver microsomes showed that paliperidone does not substantially inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5. Therefore, paliperidone is not expected to inhibit clearance of drugs that are metabolized by these metabolic pathways in a clinically relevant manner. Paliperidone is also not expected to have enzyme inducing properties. In vitro Paliperidone is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) at high concentrations. No data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown. in vivo Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and INVEGA is unlikely. (R) In a drug interaction study, co-administration of INVEGA (12 mg once daily for 5 days) with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (500 mg to 2000 mg once daily) did not affect the steady-state pharmacokinetics (AUC and C ) of valproate in 13 patients stabilized on valproate. In a clinical study, subjects on stable doses of valproate had comparable valproate average plasma concentrations when INVEGA 3-15 mg/day was added to their existing valproate treatment. (R) 24h max,ss (R) 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect INVEGA (R) Paliperidone is not a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, so that an interaction with inhibitors or inducers of these isozymes is unlikely. While studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone metabolism, studies do not show decreased elimination by these isozymes and they contribute to only a small fraction of total body clearance. studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate. in vitro in vivo In vitro Co-administration of INVEGA 6 mg once daily with carbamazepine, a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp), at 200 mg twice daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state C and AUC of paliperidone. This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone. A minor decrease in the amount of drug excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of INVEGA should be re-evaluated and increased if necessary. Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of INVEGA should be re-evaluated and decreased if necessary. (R) max (R) (R) Paliperidone is metabolized to a limited extent by CYP2D6 . In an interaction study in healthy subjects in which a single 3 mg dose of INVEGA was administered concomitantly with 20 mg per day of paroxetine (a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor), paliperidone exposures were on average 16% (90% CI: 4, 30) higher in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers. Higher doses of paroxetine have not been studied. The clinical relevance is unknown. [see ] Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) (R) Co-administration of a single dose of INVEGA 12 mg with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the C and AUC of paliperidone. Dosage reduction for INVEGA should be considered when INVEGA is co-administered with valproate after clinical assessment. (R) max (R) (R) Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and INVEGA is unlikely. (R)"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence >= 5% and at least twice that for placebo) were ( ) 6 Adults with schizophrenia: extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. Adolescents with schizophrenia: somnolence, akathisia, tremor, dystonia, cogwheel rigidity, anxiety, weight increased, and tachycardia. Adults with schizoaffective disorder: extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-JANSSEN (1-800-526-7736) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Overall Adverse Reaction Profile The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see and ] Boxed Warning Warnings and Precautions (5.1) Cerebrovascular adverse reactions, including stroke, in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.2) Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.3) QT prolongation [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.4) Tardive dyskinesia [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.5) Metabolic changes [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.6) Hyperprolactinemia [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.7) Potential for gastrointestinal obstruction [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.8) Orthostatic hypotension and syncope [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.9) Leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.10) Potential for cognitive and motor impairment [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.11) Seizures [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.12) Dysphagia [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.13) Suicide [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.14) Priapism [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.15) Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.16) Disruption of body temperature regulation [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.17) Antiemetic effect [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.18) Increased sensitivity in patients with Parkinson's disease or those with dementia with Lewy bodies [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.19) Diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.19) The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA and at least twice the placebo rate in any of the dose groups) were extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult patients with schizoaffective disorder (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA and at least twice the placebo rate) were extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. (R) (R) The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (causing discontinuation in 2% of INVEGA -treated subjects) were nervous system disorders. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder were gastrointestinal disorders, which resulted in discontinuation in 1% of INVEGA -treated subjects. . (R) (R) [See ] Adverse Reactions (6.4) The safety of INVEGA was evaluated in 1205 adult subjects with schizophrenia who participated in three placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials, of whom 850 subjects received INVEGA at fixed doses ranging from 3 mg to 12 mg once daily. The information presented in this section was derived from pooled data from these three trials. Additional safety information from the placebo-controlled phase of the long-term maintenance study, in which subjects received INVEGA at daily doses within the range of 3 mg to 15 mg (n=104), is also included. (R) (R) (R) The safety of INVEGA was evaluated in 150 adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia who received INVEGA in the dose range of 1.5 mg to 12 mg/day in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. (R) (R) The safety of INVEGA was also evaluated in 622 adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder who participated in two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials. In one of these trials, 206 subjects were assigned to one of two dose levels of INVEGA : 6 mg with the option to reduce to 3 mg (n = 108) or 12 mg with the option to reduce to 9 mg (n = 98) once daily. In the other study, 214 subjects received flexible doses of INVEGA (3-12 mg once daily). Both studies included subjects who received INVEGA either as monotherapy or as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Adverse events during exposure to study treatment were obtained by general inquiry and recorded by clinical investigators using their own terminology. Consequently, to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse events, events were grouped in standardized categories using MedDRA terminology. (R) (R) (R) (R) Throughout this section, adverse reactions are reported. Adverse reactions are adverse events that were considered to be reasonably associated with the use of INVEGA (adverse drug reactions) based on the comprehensive assessment of the available adverse event information. A causal association for INVEGA often cannot be reliably established in individual cases. Further, because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. (R) (R) 6.2 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizophrenia in Adults and Adolescents Adult Patients with Schizophrenia enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in INVEGA -treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 4 (R) (R) Table 4. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of INVEGA -Treated Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia in Three Short-Term, Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials (R) Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the INVEGA dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from three studies; one study included once-daily INVEGA doses of 3 mg and 9 mg, the second study included 6 mg, 9 mg, and 12 mg, and the third study included 6 mg and 12 mg . Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, oculogyration, parkinsonism, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Adverse reactions for which the INVEGA incidence was equal to or less than placebo are not listed in the table, but included the following: vomiting. (R) (R) [see ] Clinical Studies (14) (R) Percentage of Patients INVEGA (R) Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 37 48 47 53 59 Cardiac disorders Atrioventricular block first degree 1 2 0 2 1 Bundle branch block 2 3 1 3 <1 Sinus arrhythmia 0 2 1 1 <1 Tachycardia 7 14 12 12 14 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal pain upper 1 1 3 2 2 Dry mouth 1 2 3 1 3 Salivary hypersecretion <1 0 <1 1 4 General disorders Asthenia 1 2 <1 2 2 Fatigue 1 2 1 2 2 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 3 8 10 Dizziness 4 6 5 4 5 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 10 7 20 18 Headache 12 11 12 14 14 Somnolence 7 6 9 10 11 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotension 1 2 1 2 4 Adolescent Patients with Schizophrenia lists the adverse reactions reported in a fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in INVEGA -treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 5 (R) (R) Table 5. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of INVEGA -Treated Adolescent Subjects with Schizophrenia in a Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial (R) Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the INVEGA dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms oculogyric crisis, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, nuchal rigidity, torticollis, trismus, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle contractions involuntary, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, tremor, and restlessness. Somnolence includes the terms somnolence, sedation, and hypersomnia. Insomnia includes the terms insomnia and initial insomnia. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Hypertension includes the terms hypertension and blood pressure increased. Gynecomastia includes the terms gynecomastia and breast swelling. (R) Percentage of Patients INVEGA (R) Placebo 1.5 mg once daily 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 43 37 50 58 74 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 0 0 6 9 6 Eye disorders Vision blurred 0 0 0 0 3 Gastrointestinal disorders Dry mouth 2 0 0 0 3 Salivary hypersecretion 0 2 6 2 0 Swollen tongue 0 0 0 0 3 Vomiting 10 0 6 11 3 General disorders Asthenia 0 0 0 2 3 Fatigue 0 4 0 2 3 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 2 4 0 4 0 Investigations Weight increased 0 7 6 2 3 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 0 4 6 11 17 Dizziness 0 2 6 2 3 Extrapyramidal symptoms 0 4 19 18 23 Headache 4 9 6 4 14 Lethargy 0 0 0 0 3 Somnolence 4 9 13 20 26 Tongue paralysis 0 0 0 0 3 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 4 0 0 2 9 Reproductive system and breast disorders Amenorrhea 0 0 6 0 0 Galactorrhea 0 0 0 4 0 Gynecomastia 0 0 0 0 3 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Epistaxis 0 0 0 2 0 6.3 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizoaffective Disorder in Adults enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA and for which the incidence in INVEGA -treated subjects was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 6 (R) (R) Table 6. Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by >= 2% of INVEGA -Treated Adult Subjects with Schizoaffective Disorder in Two Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials (R) Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the INVEGA dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from two studies. One study included once-daily INVEGA doses of 6 mg (with the option to reduce to 3 mg) and 12 mg (with the option to reduce to 9 mg). The second study included flexible once-daily doses of 3 to 12 mg. Among the 420 subjects treated with INVEGA , 230 (55%) received INVEGA as monotherapy and 190 (45%) received INVEGA as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms bradykinesia, drooling, dyskinesia, dystonia, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle twitching, oculogyration, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, restlessness, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. (R) (R) (R) (R) (R) Percentage of Patients INVEGA (R) INVEGA (R) INVEGA (R) Placebo 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose Body System or Organ Class (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 32 48 50 43 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 2 3 1 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal discomfort/Abdominal pain upper 1 1 0 3 Constipation 2 4 5 4 Dyspepsia 2 5 6 6 Nausea 6 8 8 5 Stomach discomfort 1 0 1 2 General disorders Asthenia 1 3 4 <1 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 2 5 3 Rhinitis 0 1 3 1 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 2 2 2 Investigations Weight increased 1 5 4 4 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite <1 1 0 2 Increased appetite <1 3 2 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 1 1 1 3 Myalgia <1 2 4 1 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 6 6 Dysarthria 0 1 4 2 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 20 17 12 Somnolence 5 12 12 8 Psychiatric disorders Sleep disorder <1 2 3 0 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 1 3 1 Pharyngolaryngeal pain <1 0 2 1 Monotherapy versus Adjunctive Therapy The designs of the two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder included the option for subjects to receive antidepressants (except monoamine oxidase inhibitors) and/or mood stabilizers (lithium, valproate, or lamotrigine). In the subject population evaluated for safety, 230 (55%) subjects received INVEGA as monotherapy and 190 (45%) subjects received INVEGA as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. When comparing these 2 subpopulations, only nausea occurred at a greater frequency (>= 3% difference) in subjects receiving INVEGA as monotherapy. (R) (R) (R) 6.4 Discontinuations Due to Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the three schizophrenia placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults were 3% and 1% in INVEGA - and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were nervous system disorders (2% and 0% in INVEGA - and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). (R) (R) Among the adverse reactions in the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, only dystonia led to discontinuation (<1% of INVEGA -treated subjects). (R) Schizoaffective Disorder Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the two schizoaffective disorder placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adults were 1% and <1% in INVEGA - and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were gastrointestinal disorders (1% and 0% in INVEGA - and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). (R) (R) 6.5 Dose-Related Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials Based on the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with a greater than 2% incidence in the subjects treated with INVEGA , the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, akathisia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, parkinsonism, and salivary hypersecretion. For most of these, the increased incidence was seen primarily at the 12 mg dose, and, in some cases, the 9 mg dose. (R) In the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with >2% incidence in the subjects treated with INVEGA , the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: tachycardia, akathisia, extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, and headache. (R) Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In a placebo-controlled, 6-week, high- and low-dose study in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, akathisia, dystonia, dysarthria, myalgia, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, cough, and pharyngolaryngeal pain occurred more frequently (i.e., a difference of at least 2%) in subjects who received higher doses of INVEGA compared with subjects who received lower doses. (R) 6.6 Demographic Differences An examination of population subgroups in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and in the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder did not reveal any evidence of clinically relevant differences in safety on the basis of gender or race alone; there was also no difference on the basis of age . [see ] Use in Specific Populations (8.5) 6.7 Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia provided information regarding treatment-emergent EPS. Several methods were used to measure EPS: (1) the Simpson-Angus global score (mean change from baseline) which broadly evaluates Parkinsonism, (2) the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global clinical rating score (mean change from baseline) which evaluates akathisia, (3) use of anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS ( ), and (4) incidence of spontaneous reports of EPS ( ). For the Simpson-Angus Scale, spontaneous EPS reports and use of anticholinergic medications, there was a dose-related increase observed for the 9 mg and 12 mg doses. There was no difference observed between placebo and INVEGA 3 mg and 6 mg doses for any of these EPS measures. Table 7 Table 8 (R) Table 7. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Assessed by Incidence of Ratings Scales and Use of Anticholinergic Medication - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients INVEGA (R) Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Parkinsonism For Parkinsonism, percent of patients with Simpson-Angus global score > 0.3 (Global score defined as total sum of items score divided by the number of items) 9 11 3 15 14 Akathisia For Akathisia, percent of patients with Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global score >= 2 6 6 4 7 9 Use of anticholinergic medications Percent of patients who received anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS 10 10 9 22 22 Table 8. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients INVEGA (R) Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle twitching, tardive dyskinesia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration, trismus Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, drooling, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 13 10 25 26 Dyskinesia 3 5 3 8 9 Dystonia 1 1 1 5 5 Hyperkinesia 4 4 3 8 10 Parkinsonism 2 3 3 7 6 Tremor 3 3 3 4 3 Compared to data from the studies in adults subjects with schizophrenia, pooled data from the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder showed similar types and frequencies of EPS as measured by rating scales, anticholinergic medication use, and spontaneous reports of EPS-related adverse events. For subjects with schizoaffective disorder, there was no dose-related increase in EPS observed for parkinsonism with the Simpson-Angus scale or akathisia with the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale. There was a dose-related increase observed with spontaneous EPS reports of hyperkinesia and dystonia and in the use of anticholinergic medications. shows the EPS data from the pooled schizoaffective disorder trials. Table 9 Table 9. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizoaffective Disorder Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients INVEGA (R) Placebo 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose EPS Group (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle twitching Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia, restlessness Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, drooling, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle tightness, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 23 22 17 Dyskinesia 1 3 1 1 Dystonia 1 2 3 2 Hyperkinesia 5 5 8 7 Parkinsonism 3 14 7 7 Tremor 3 12 11 5 The incidences of EPS-related adverse events in the adolescent schizophrenia studies showed a similar dose-related pattern to those in the adult studies. There were notably higher incidences of dystonia, hyperkinesia, tremor, and parkinsonism in the adolescent population as compared to the adult studies . (Table 10) Table 10. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adolescent Subjects Percentage of Patients INVEGA (R) Placebo 1.5 mg once daily 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle contracture, oculogyric crisis, tongue paralysis, torticollis Tremor group includes: Tremor Parkinsonism group includes: Cogwheel rigidity, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle rigidity Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle contractions involuntary Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 0 6 25 22 40 Hyperkinesia 0 4 6 11 17 Dystonia 0 2 0 11 14 Tremor 0 2 6 7 11 Parkinsonism 0 0 6 2 14 Dyskinesia 0 2 6 2 6 Dystonia Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. Class Effect: 6.8 Laboratory Test Abnormalities In the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, between-group comparisons revealed no medically important differences between INVEGA and placebo in the proportions of subjects experiencing potentially clinically significant changes in routine serum chemistry, hematology, or urinalysis parameters. Similarly, there were no differences between INVEGA and placebo in the incidence of discontinuations due to changes in hematology, urinalysis, or serum chemistry, including mean changes from baseline in fasting glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglyceride, HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol measurements. However, INVEGA was associated with increases in serum prolactin (R) (R) (R) [see ]. Warnings and Precautions (5.7) 6.9 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During Premarketing Evaluation of INVEGA (R) The following additional adverse reactions occurred in < 2% of INVEGA -treated subjects in the above schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder clinical trial datasets. The following also includes additional adverse reactions reported at any frequency by INVEGA -treated subjects who participated in other clinical studies. (R) (R) bradycardia, palpitations Cardiac disorders: eye movement disorder Eye disorders: flatulence Gastrointestinal disorders: edema General disorders: anaphylactic reaction Immune system disorders: urinary tract infection Infections and infestations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased Investigations: arthralgia, pain in extremity Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: opisthotonus Nervous system disorders: agitation, insomnia, nightmare Psychiatric disorders: breast discomfort, menstruation irregular, retrograde ejaculation Reproductive system and breast disorders: nasal congestion Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: pruritus, rash Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: hypertension Vascular disorders: The safety of INVEGA was also evaluated in a long-term trial designed to assess the maintenance of effect with INVEGA in adults with schizophrenia . In general, adverse reaction types, frequencies, and severities during the initial 14-week open-label phase of this study were comparable to those observed in the 6-week, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose studies. Adverse reactions reported during the long-term double-blind phase of this study were similar in type and severity to those observed in the initial 14-week open-label phase. (R) (R) [see ] Clinical Studies (14) 6.10 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of INVEGA ; because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency: angioedema, ileus, priapism, swollen tongue, tardive dyskinesia, urinary incontinence, urinary retention. (R) 6.11 Adverse Reactions Reported With Risperidone Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone. Adverse reactions reported with risperidone can be found in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section of the risperidone package insert."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS An increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (e.g. stroke, transient ischemic attack, including fatalities) has been seen in elderly patients with dementia- related psychoses treated with atypical antipsychotics. ( ) Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions: 5.2 Manage with immediate discontinuation of drug and close monitoring. ( ) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: 5.3 Increase in QT interval, avoid use with drugs that also increase QT interval and in patients with risk factors for prolonged QT interval. ( ) QT Prolongation: 5.4 Discontinue drug if clinically appropriate. ( ) Tardive Dyskinesia: 5.5 Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/ cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and weight gain. ( ) Metabolic Changes: 5.6 Monitor patients for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Monitor glucose regularly in patients with diabetes or at risk for diabetes. ( ) Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus: 5.6 Undesirable alterations have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. ( ) Dyslipidemia: 5.6 Significant weight gain has been reported. Monitor weight gain. ( ) Weight Gain: 5.6 Prolactin elevations occur and persist during chronic administration. ( ) Hyperprolactinemia: 5.7 Obstructive symptoms may result in patients with gastrointestinal disease. ( ) Gastrointestinal Narrowing: 5.8 Use with caution in patients with known cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease and patients predisposed to hypotension. ( ) Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope: 5.9 has been reported with antipsychotics, including INVEGA . Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of INVEGA should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. ( ) Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis: (R) (R) 5.10 Use caution when operating machinery. ( ) Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment: 5.11 Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold. ( ) Seizures: 5.12 Closely supervise high-risk patients. ( ) Suicide: 5.14 5.1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. INVEGA (paliperidone) is not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis . (R) [see ] Boxed Warning 5.2 Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients With Dementia-Related Psychosis In placebo-controlled trials with risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine in elderly subjects with dementia, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks) including fatalities compared to placebo-treated subjects. INVEGA was not marketed at the time these studies were performed. INVEGA is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis . (R) (R) [see also and ] Boxed Warning Warnings and Precautions (5.1) 5.3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs, including paliperidone. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases in which the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system pathology. The management of NMS should include: (1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy; (2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring; and (3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient appears to require antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, reintroduction of drug therapy should be closely monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. 5.4 QT Prolongation Paliperidone causes a modest increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. The use of paliperidone should be avoided in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Paliperidone should also be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias. Certain circumstances may increase the risk of the occurrence of torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval, including (1) bradycardia; (2) hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia; (3) concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval; and (4) presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval. The effects of paliperidone on the QT interval were evaluated in a double-blind, active-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg single dose), multicenter QT study in adults with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, and in three placebo- and active-controlled 6-week, fixed-dose efficacy trials in adults with schizophrenia. In the QT study (n = 141), the 8 mg dose of immediate-release oral paliperidone (n=50) showed a mean placebo-subtracted increase from baseline in QTcLD of 12.3 msec (90% CI: 8.9; 15.6) on day 8 at 1.5 hours post-dose. The mean steady-state peak plasma concentration for this 8 mg dose of paliperidone immediate-release was more than twice the exposure observed with the maximum recommended 12 mg dose of INVEGA (C ss = 113 ng/mL and 45 ng/mL, respectively, when administered with a standard breakfast). In this same study, a 4 mg dose of the immediate-release oral formulation of paliperidone, for which C ss = 35 ng/mL, showed an increased placebo-subtracted QTcLD of 6.8 msec (90% CI: 3.6; 10.1) on day 2 at 1.5 hours post-dose. None of the subjects had a change exceeding 60 msec or a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time during this study. (R) max max For the three fixed-dose efficacy studies in subjects with schizophrenia, electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements taken at various time points showed only one subject in the INVEGA 12 mg group had a change exceeding 60 msec at one time-point on Day 6 (increase of 62 msec). No subject receiving INVEGA had a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time in any of these three studies. (R) (R) 5.5 Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to predict which patients will develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible appear to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase, but the syndrome can develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses, although this is uncommon. There is no known treatment for established tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and may thus mask the underlying process. The effect of symptomatic suppression on the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, INVEGA should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. (R) If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient treated with INVEGA , drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment with INVEGA despite the presence of the syndrome. (R) (R) 5.6 Metabolic Changes Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and body weight gain. While all of the drugs in the class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus Hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus, in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, have been reported in patients treated with all atypical antipsychotics. These cases were, for the most part, seen in post-marketing clinical use and epidemiologic studies, not in clinical trials, and there have been few reports of hyperglycemia or diabetes in trial subjects treated with INVEGA . Assessment of the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and glucose abnormalities is complicated by the possibility of an increased background risk of diabetes mellitus in patients with schizophrenia and the increasing incidence of diabetes mellitus in the general population. Given these confounders, the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and hyperglycemia-related adverse events is not completely understood. However, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of treatment-emergent hyperglycemia-related adverse events in patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics. Because INVEGA was not marketed at the time these studies were performed, it is not known if INVEGA is associated with this increased risk. (R) (R) (R) Patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Patients with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes) who are starting treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. Any patient treated with atypical antipsychotics should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the atypical antipsychotic was discontinued; however, some patients required continuation of anti-diabetic treatment despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1a. Table 1a. Change in Fasting Glucose from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA (R) Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=322 n=122 n=212 n=234 n=218 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -0.7 0.4 2.3 4.3 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 5.1% 3.2% 4.5% 4.8% 3.8% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (12/236) (3/93) (7/156) (9/187) (6/157) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, INVEGA was associated with a mean change in glucose of +3.3 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=570) and +4.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=314). (R) Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1b. Table 1b. Change in Fasting Glucose from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia INVEGA (R) Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=41 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -1.4 -1.8 -0.1 5.2 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 3% 0% 0% 0% 11% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (1/32) (0/34) (0/9) (0/20) (3/27) Dyslipidemia Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2a. Table 2a. Change in Fasting Lipids from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA (R) Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=331 n=120 n=216 n=236 n=231 Change from baseline -6.3 -4.4 -2.4 -5.3 -4.0 LDL n=322 n=116 n=210 n=231 n=225 Change from baseline -3.2 0.5 -0.8 -3.9 -2.0 HDL n=331 n=119 n=216 n=234 n=230 Change from baseline 0.3 -0.4 0.5 0.8 1.2 Triglycerides n=331 n=120 n=216 n=236 n=231 Change from baseline -22.3 -18.3 -12.6 -10.6 -15.4 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 2.6% 2.8% 5.6% 4.1% 3.1% (<200 mg/dL to >=240 mg/dL) (5/194) (2/71) (7/125) (6/147) (4/130) LDL Normal to High 1.9% 0.0% 5.0% 3.7% 0.0% (<100 mg/dL to >=160 mg/dL) (2/105) (0/44) (3/60) (3/81) (0/69) HDL Normal to Low 22.0% 16.3% 29.1% 23.4% 20.0% ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (44/200) (13/80) (39/134) (32/137) (27/135) Triglycerides Normal to High 5.3% 11.0% 8.8% 8.7% 4.3% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (11/208) (9/82) (12/136) (13/150) (6/139) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, INVEGA was associated with a mean change in (a) total cholesterol of -1.5 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -1.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317), (b) triglycerides of -6.4 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -10.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317); (c) LDL of -1.9 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=557) and -2.7 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=297); and (d) HDL of +2.2 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=568) and +3.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=302). (R) Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2b. Table 2b. Change in Fasting Lipids from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia INVEGA (R) Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=39 n=45 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -7.8 -3.3 12.7 3.0 -1.5 LDL n=37 n=40 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -4.1 -3.1 7.2 2.4 0.6 HDL n=37 n=41 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -1.9 0.0 1.3 1.4 0.0 Triglycerides n=39 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -8.9 3.2 17.6 -5.4 3.9 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 7% 4% 0% 6% 11% (<170 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (2/27) (1/26) (0/6) (1/18) (2/19) LDL Normal to High 3% 4% 14% 0% 9% (<110 mg/dL to >=130 mg/dL) (1/32) (1/25) (1/7) (0/22) (2/22) HDL Normal to Low 14% 7% 29% 13% 23% ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (4/28) (2/30) (2/7) (3/23) (5/22) Triglycerides Normal to High 3% 5% 13% 8% 7% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (1/34) (2/38) (1/8) (2/26) (2/28) Weight Gain Weight gain has been observed with atypical antipsychotic use. Clinical monitoring of weight is recommended. Schizophrenia Trials Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects are presented in Table 3a. Table 3a. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia INVEGA (R) Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day n=323 n=112 n=215 n=235 n=218 Weight (kg) Change from baseline -0.4 0.6 0.6 1.0 1.1 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 5% 7% 6% 9% 9% In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, INVEGA was associated with a mean change in weight of +1.4 kg at Week 24 (n=63) and +2.6 kg at Week 52 (n=302). (R) Weight gain in adolescent subjects with schizophrenia was assessed in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study and an open-label extension with a median duration of exposure to INVEGA of 182 days. Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) are presented in Table 3b. (R) [see ] Clinical Studies (14.1) Table 3b. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia INVEGA (R) Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day n=51 n=54 n=16 n=45 n=34 Weight (kg) Change from baseline 0.0 0.3 0.8 1.2 1.5 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 2% 6% 19% 7% 18% In the open-label long-term study the proportion of total subjects treated with INVEGA with an increase in body weight of >= 7% from baseline was 33%. When treating adolescent patients with INVEGA , weight gain should be assessed against that expected with normal growth. When taking into consideration the median duration of exposure to INVEGA in the open-label study (182 days) along with expected normal growth in this population based on age and gender, an assessment of standardized scores relative to normative data provides a more clinically relevant measure of changes in weight. The mean change from open-label baseline to endpoint in standardized score for weight was 0.1 (4% above the median for normative data). Based on comparison to the normative data, these changes are not considered to be clinically significant. (R) (R) (R) Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In the pooled data from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, a higher percentage of INVEGA -treated subjects (5%) had an increase in body weight of >= 7% compared with placebo-treated subjects (1%). In the study that examined high- and low-dose groups, the increase in body weight of >= 7% was 3% in the low-dose group, 7% in the high-dose group, and 1% in the placebo group. (R) 5.7 Hyperprolactinemia Like other drugs that antagonize dopamine D receptors, paliperidone elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration. Paliperidone has a prolactin-elevating effect similar to that seen with risperidone, a drug that is associated with higher levels of prolactin than other antipsychotic drugs. 2 Hyperprolactinemia, regardless of etiology, may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence have been reported in patients receiving prolactin-elevating compounds. Long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male subjects. Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin dependent , a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is considered in a patient with previously detected breast cancer. An increase in the incidence of pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasia (mammary adenocarcinomas, pituitary and pancreatic adenomas) was observed in the risperidone carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats . Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date have shown an association between chronic administration of this class of drugs and tumorigenesis in humans, but the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive. in vitro [see ] Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1) 5.8 Potential for Gastrointestinal Obstruction Because the INVEGA tablet is non-deformable and does not appreciably change in shape in the gastrointestinal tract, INVEGA should ordinarily not be administered to patients with pre-existing severe gastrointestinal narrowing (pathologic or iatrogenic, for example: esophageal motility disorders, small bowel inflammatory disease, \"short gut\" syndrome due to adhesions or decreased transit time, past history of peritonitis, cystic fibrosis, chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, or Meckel's diverticulum). There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of drugs in non-deformable controlled-release formulations. Because of the controlled-release design of the tablet, INVEGA should only be used in patients who are able to swallow the tablet whole . (R) (R) (R) [see and ] Dosage and Administration (2.3) Patient Counseling Information (17.8) A decrease in transit time, e.g., as seen with diarrhea, would be expected to decrease bioavailability and an increase in transit time, e.g., as seen with gastrointestinal neuropathy, diabetic gastroparesis, or other causes, would be expected to increase bioavailability. These changes in bioavailability are more likely when the changes in transit time occur in the upper GI tract. 5.9 Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Paliperidone can induce orthostatic hypotension and syncope in some patients because of its alpha-blocking activity. In pooled results of the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose trials in subjects with schizophrenia, syncope was reported in 0.8% (7/850) of subjects treated with INVEGA (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) compared to 0.3% (1/355) of subjects treated with placebo. INVEGA should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, history of myocardial infarction or ischemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension. (R) (R) 5.10 Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis In clinical trial and/or postmarketing experience, events of leukopenia/neutropenia have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents, including INVEGA . Agranulocytosis has also been reported. Class Effect: (R) Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC) and history of drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low WBC or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of INVEGA should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. (R) Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1000/mm ) should discontinue INVEGA and have their WBC followed until recovery. 3 (R) 5.11 Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment Somnolence was reported in subjects treated with INVEGA . Antipsychotics, including INVEGA , have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Patients should be cautioned about performing activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating hazardous machinery or operating a motor vehicle, until they are reasonably certain that paliperidone therapy does not adversely affect them. (R) [see , )] Adverse Reactions (6.1 6.2 (R) 5.12 Seizures During premarketing clinical trials in subjects with schizophrenia (the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies and a study conducted in elderly schizophrenic subjects), seizures occurred in 0.22% of subjects treated with INVEGA (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) and 0.25% of subjects treated with placebo. Like other antipsychotic drugs, INVEGA should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. (R) (R) 5.13 Dysphagia Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with advanced Alzheimer's dementia. INVEGA and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration pneumonia. (R) 5.14 Suicide The possibility of suicide attempt is inherent in psychotic illnesses, and close supervision of high-risk patients should accompany drug therapy. Prescriptions for INVEGA should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose. (R) 5.15 Priapism Drugs with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have been reported to induce priapism. Priapism has been reported with INVEGA during postmarketing surveillance. Severe priapism may require surgical intervention. (R) 5.16 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) No cases of TTP were observed during clinical studies with paliperidone. Although cases of TTP have been reported in association with risperidone administration, the relationship to risperidone therapy is unknown. 5.17 Body Temperature Regulation Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing INVEGA to patients who will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration. (R) 5.18 Antiemetic Effect An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain drugs or of conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye's syndrome, and brain tumor. 5.19 Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness Clinical experience with INVEGA in patients with certain concomitant illnesses is limited . (R) [see ] Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies are reported to have an increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medication. Manifestations of this increased sensitivity include confusion, obtundation, postural instability with frequent falls, extrapyramidal symptoms, and clinical features consistent with the neuroleptic malignant syndrome. INVEGA has not been evaluated or used to any appreciable extent in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable heart disease. Patients with these diagnoses were excluded from premarketing clinical trials. Because of the risk of orthostatic hypotension with INVEGA , caution should be observed in patients with known cardiovascular disease . (R) (R) [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.9) 5.20 Monitoring: Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are recommended."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Paliperidone&limit=1&skip=8
Page 8 of 11
        "generic_name": [
          "PALIPERIDONE"
        "brand_name": [
          "INVEGA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Centrally-acting drugs: Due to CNS effects, use caution in combination. Avoid alcohol. (7.1) Drugs that may cause orthostatic hypotension: An additive effect may be observed when co-administered with INVEGA(R). (7.1) Co-administration with carbamazepine decreased mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone by approximately 37%. Adjust dose of INVEGA(R) if necessary based on clinical assessment. (7.2) Co-administration of divalproex sodium increased Cmax and AUC of paliperidone by approximately 50%. Adjust dose of INVEGA(R) if necessary based on clinical assessment. (7.2) 7.1 Potential for INVEGA(R) to Affect Other Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of paliperidone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)], INVEGA(R) should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Paliperidone may antagonize the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension, an additive effect may be observed when INVEGA(R) is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes. In vitro studies in human liver microsomes showed that paliperidone does not substantially inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5. Therefore, paliperidone is not expected to inhibit clearance of drugs that are metabolized by these metabolic pathways in a clinically relevant manner. Paliperidone is also not expected to have enzyme inducing properties. Paliperidone is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) at high concentrations. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and INVEGA(R) is unlikely. In a clinical study, subjects on a stable dose of valproate showed comparable valproate average plasma concentrations when 3-15 mg of INVEGA(R) was added to their existing valproate treatment. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect INVEGA(R) Paliperidone is not a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, so that an interaction with inhibitors or inducers of these isozymes is unlikely. While in vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone metabolism, in vivo studies do not show decreased elimination by these isozymes and they contribute to only a small fraction of total body clearance. In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate. Co-administration of INVEGA(R) 6 mg once daily with carbamazepine 200 mg twice daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone. A minor decrease in the amount of drug excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of INVEGA(R) should be re-evaluated and increased if necessary. Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of INVEGA(R) should be re-evaluated and decreased if necessary. Paliperidone is metabolized to a limited extent by CYP2D6 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In an interaction study in healthy subjects in which a single 3 mg dose of INVEGA(R) was administered concomitantly with 20 mg per day of paroxetine (a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor), paliperidone exposures were on average 16% (90% CI: 4, 30) higher in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers. Higher doses of paroxetine have not been studied. The clinical relevance is unknown. Co-administration of a single dose of INVEGA(R) 12 mg with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. Dosage reduction for INVEGA(R) should be considered when INVEGA(R) is co-administered with valproate after clinical assessment. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and INVEGA(R) is unlikely."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cerebrovascular adverse events, including stroke, in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Tardive dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hyperprolactinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Potential for Gastrointestinal Obstruction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Orthostatic hypotension and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Potential for cognitive and motor impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Dysphagia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Suicide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)] Disruption of body temperature regulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)] Antiemetic effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18)] Increased sensitivity in patients with Parkinson's disease or those with dementia with Lewy bodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] Diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in subjects with schizophrenia (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) and at least twice the placebo rate in any of the dose groups) were extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in patients with schizoaffective disorder (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) and at least twice the placebo rate) were extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in subjects with schizophrenia (causing discontinuation in 2% of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects) were nervous system disorders. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in subjects with schizoaffective disorder were gastrointestinal disorders, which resulted in discontinuation in 1% of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects. [See Adverse Reactions (6.4)]. The safety of INVEGA(R) was evaluated in 1205 adult subjects with schizophrenia who participated in three placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials, of whom 850 subjects received INVEGA(R) at fixed doses ranging from 3 mg to 12 mg once daily. The information presented in this section was derived from pooled data from these three trials. Additional safety information from the placebo-controlled phase of the long-term maintenance study, in which subjects received INVEGA(R) at daily doses within the range of 3 mg to 15 mg (n=104), is also included. The safety of INVEGA(R) was also evaluated in 622 adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder who participated in two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials. In one of these trials, 206 subjects were assigned to one of two dose levels of INVEGA(R): 6 mg with the option to reduce to 3 mg (n = 108) or 12 mg with the option to reduce to 9 mg (n = 98) once daily. In the other study, 214 subjects received flexible doses of INVEGA(R) (3-12 mg once daily). Both studies included subjects who received INVEGA(R) either as monotherapy or as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Adverse events during exposure to study treatment were obtained by general inquiry and recorded by clinical investigators using their own terminology. Consequently, to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse events, events were grouped in standardized categories using MedDRA terminology. Throughout this section, adverse reactions are reported. Adverse reactions are adverse events that were considered to be reasonably associated with the use of INVEGA(R) (adverse drug reactions) based on the comprehensive assessment of the available adverse event information. A causal association for INVEGA(R) often cannot be reliably established in individual cases. Further, because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The most common adverse reactions (incidence >= 5% and at least twice that for placebo) were extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia in the schizophrenia trials, and extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis in the schizoaffective disorder trials. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Janssen, Division of Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-JANSSEN (1-800-526-7736) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizophrenia Table 1 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in INVEGA(R)-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 1. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of INVEGA(R)-Treated Subjects with Schizophrenia in Three Short-Term, Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the INVEGA(R) dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from three studies; one study included once-daily INVEGA(R) doses of 3 mg and 9 mg, the second study included 6 mg, 9 mg, and 12 mg, and the third study included 6 mg and 12 mg [see Clinical Studies (14)]). Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, oculogyration, parkinsonism, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Adverse reactions for which the INVEGA(R) incidence was equal to or less than placebo are not listed in the table, but included the following: vomiting. Percent of Patients Reporting Event INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class Dictionary-Derived Term (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 37 48 47 53 59 Cardiac disorders Atrioventricular block first degree 1 2 0 2 1 Bundle branch block 2 3 1 3 <1 Sinus arrhythmia 0 2 1 1 <1 Tachycardia 7 14 12 12 14 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal pain upper 1 1 3 2 2 Dry mouth 1 2 3 1 3 Salivary hypersecretion <1 0 <1 1 4 General disorders Asthenia 1 2 <1 2 2 Fatigue 1 2 1 2 2 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 3 8 10 Dizziness 4 6 5 4 5 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 10 7 20 18 Headache 12 11 12 14 14 Somnolence 7 6 9 10 11 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotension 1 2 1 2 4 6.2 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizoaffective Disorder Table 2 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) and for which the incidence in INVEGA(R)-treated subjects was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 2. Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by >= 2% of INVEGA(R)-Treated Subjects with Schizoaffective Disorder in Two Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Placebo INVEGA(R) 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range INVEGA(R) 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range INVEGA(R) 3-12 mg once-daily flexible-dose Body System or Organ Class (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dictionary-Derived Term * Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the INVEGA(R) dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from two studies. One study included once-daily INVEGA(R) doses of 6 mg (with the option to reduce to 3 mg) and 12 mg (with the option to reduce to 9 mg). The second study included flexible once-daily doses of 3 to 12 mg. Among the 420 subjects treated with INVEGA(R), 230 (55%) received INVEGA(R) as monotherapy and 190 (45%) received INVEGA(R) as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms bradykinesia, drooling, dyskinesia, dystonia, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle twitching, oculogyration, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, restlessness, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 32 48 50 43 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 2 3 1 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal discomfort/Abdominal pain upper 1 1 0 3 Constipation 2 4 5 4 Dyspepsia 2 5 6 6 Nausea 6 8 8 5 Stomach discomfort 1 0 1 2 General disorders Asthenia 1 3 4 <1 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 2 5 3 Rhinitis 0 1 3 1 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 2 2 2 Investigations Weight increased 1 5 4 4 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite <1 1 0 2 Increased appetite <1 3 2 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 1 1 1 3 Myalgia <1 2 4 1 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 6 6 Dysarthria 0 1 4 2 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 20 17 12 Somnolence 5 12 12 8 Psychiatric disorders Sleep disorder <1 2 3 0 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 1 3 1 Pharyngolaryngeal pain <1 0 2 1 Monotherapy versus Adjunctive Therapy The designs of the two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials in subjects with schizoaffective disorder included the option for subjects to receive antidepressants (except monoamine oxidase inhibitors) and/or mood stabilizers (lithium, valproate, or lamotrigine). In the subject population evaluated for safety, 230 (55%) subjects received INVEGA(R) as monotherapy and 190 (45%) subjects received INVEGA(R) as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. When comparing these 2 subpopulations, only nausea occurred at a greater frequency (>= 3% difference) in subjects receiving INVEGA(R) as monotherapy. 6.3 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During Premarketing Evaluation of INVEGA(R) The following additional adverse reactions occurred in < 2% of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects in the above schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder clinical trial datasets. The following also includes additional adverse reactions reported at any frequency by INVEGA(R)-treated subjects who participated in other clinical studies. Cardiac disorders: bradycardia, bundle branch block left, palpitations Endocrine disorders: hyperprolactinemia Eye disorders: vision blurred Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal pain, flatulence, small intestinal obstruction, swollen tongue General disorders: edema, edema peripheral Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reaction Infections and infestations: urinary tract infection Investigations: electrocardiogram abnormal Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, pain in extremity Nervous system disorders: cerebrovascular accident, convulsion, dizziness postural, grand mal convulsion, lethargy, syncope, transient ischemic attack, additional extrapyramidal symptoms (cogwheel rigidity, muscle spasms, musculoskeletal pain, torticollis, trismus) Psychiatric disorders: agitation, nightmare Reproductive system and breast disorders: amenorrhea, breast discharge, breast engorgement, breast tenderness, breast pain, erectile dysfunction, galactorrhea, gynecomastia, menstruation irregular, retrograde ejaculation Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: nasal congestion, pneumonia aspiration Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: pruritus, rash, rash papular Vascular disorders: hypotension, ischemia 6.4 Discontinuations Due to Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the three schizophrenia placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies were 3% and 1% in INVEGA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were nervous system disorders (2% and 0% in INVEGA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). Schizoaffective Disorder Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the two schizoaffective disorder placebo-controlled 6-week studies were 1% and <1% in INVEGA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were gastrointestinal disorders (1% and 0% in INVEGA(R)- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). 6.5 Dose-Related Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials Based on the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in subjects with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with a greater than 2% incidence in the subjects treated with INVEGA(R), the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, akathisia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, parkinsonism, and salivary hypersecretion. For most of these, the increased incidence was seen primarily at the 12 mg dose, and, in some cases, the 9 mg dose. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In a placebo-controlled, 6-week, high- and low-dose study in subjects with schizoaffective disorder, akathisia, dystonia, dysarthria, myalgia, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, cough, and pharyngolaryngeal pain occurred more frequently (i.e., a difference of at least 2%) in subjects who received higher doses of INVEGA(R) compared with subjects who received lower doses. 6.6 Demographic Differences An examination of population subgroups in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in subjects with schizophrenia and in the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in subjects with schizoaffective disorder did not reveal any evidence of clinically relevant differences in safety on the basis of gender or race alone; there was also no difference on the basis of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. 6.7 Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in subjects with schizophrenia provided information regarding treatment-emergent EPS. Several methods were used to measure EPS: (1) the Simpson-Angus global score (mean change from baseline) which broadly evaluates Parkinsonism, (2) the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global clinical rating score (mean change from baseline) which evaluates akathisia, (3) use of anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS ( Table 3 ), and (4) incidence of spontaneous reports of EPS ( Table 4 ). For the Simpson-Angus Scale, spontaneous EPS reports and use of anticholinergic medications, there was a dose-related increase observed for the 9 mg and 12 mg doses. There was no difference observed between placebo and INVEGA(R) 3 mg and 6 mg doses for any of these EPS measures. Table 3. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Assessed by Incidence of Ratings Scales and Use of Anticholinergic Medication - Schizophrenia Studies Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg 6 mg 9 mg 12 mg once daily once daily once daily once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Parkinsonism For Parkinsonism, percent of patients with Simpson-Angus global score > 0.3 (Global score defined as total sum of items score divided by the number of items) 9 11 3 15 14 Akathisia For Akathisia, percent of patients with Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global score >= 2 6 6 4 7 9 Use of anticholinergic medications Percent of patients who received anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS 10 10 9 22 22 Table 4. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 3 mg 6 mg 9 mg 12 mg once daily once daily once daily once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle twitching, tardive dyskinesia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration, trismus Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, drooling, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 13 10 25 26 Dyskinesia 3 5 3 8 9 Dystonia 1 1 1 5 5 Hyperkinesia 4 4 3 8 10 Parkinsonism 2 3 3 7 6 Tremor 3 3 3 4 3 Compared to data from the studies in schizophrenia, pooled data from the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in subjects with schizoaffective disorder showed similar types and frequencies of EPS as measured by rating scales, anticholinergic medication use, and spontaneous reports of EPS-related adverse events. For subjects with schizoaffective disorder, there was no dose-related increase in EPS observed for parkinsonism with the Simpson-Angus scale or akathisia with the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale. There was a dose-related increase observed with spontaneous EPS reports of hyperkinesia and dystonia and in the use of anticholinergic medications. Table 5 shows the EPS data from the pooled schizoaffective disorder trials. Table 5. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizoaffective Disorder Studies Percentage of Patients INVEGA(R) Placebo 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose EPS Group (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle twitching Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia, restlessness Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, drooling, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle tightness, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 23 22 17 Dyskinesia 1 3 1 1 Dystonia 1 2 3 2 Hyperkinesia 5 5 8 7 Parkinsonism 3 14 7 7 Tremor 3 12 11 5 Dystonia Class Effect: Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. 6.8 Laboratory Test Abnormalities In the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in subjects with schizophrenia and from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in subjects with schizoaffective disorder, between-group comparisons revealed no medically important differences between INVEGA(R) and placebo in the proportions of subjects experiencing potentially clinically significant changes in routine serum chemistry, hematology, or urinalysis parameters. Similarly, there were no differences between INVEGA(R) and placebo in the incidence of discontinuations due to changes in hematology, urinalysis, or serum chemistry, including mean changes from baseline in fasting glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglyceride, HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol measurements. However, INVEGA(R) was associated with increases in serum prolactin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 6.9 Weight Gain Schizophrenia Trials In the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in subjects with schizophrenia, the proportions of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight were compared, revealing a similar incidence of weight gain for INVEGA(R) 3 mg and 6 mg (7% and 6%, respectively) compared with placebo (5%), and a higher incidence of weight gain for INVEGA(R) 9 mg and 12 mg (9% and 9%, respectively). Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In the pooled data from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in subjects with schizoaffective disorder, a higher percentage of INVEGA(R)-treated subjects (5%) had an increase in body weight of >= 7% compared with placebo-treated subjects (1%). In the study that examined high- and low-dose groups, the increase in body weight of >= 7% was 3% in the low-dose group, 7% in the high-dose group, and 1% in the placebo group. 6.10 Other Findings Observed During Clinical Trials The safety of INVEGA(R) was also evaluated in a long-term trial designed to assess the maintenance of effect with INVEGA(R) in adults with schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14)]. In general, adverse reaction types, frequencies, and severities during the initial 14-week open-label phase of this study were comparable to those observed in the 6-week, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose studies. Adverse reactions reported during the long-term double-blind phase of this study were similar in type and severity to those observed in the initial 14-week open-label phase. 6.11 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of INVEGA(R); because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency: angioedema, priapism, swollen tongue, tardive dyskinesia, urinary incontinence, urinary retention. 6.12 Adverse Reactions Reported With Risperidone Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone. Adverse reactions reported with risperidone can be found in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section of the risperidone package insert."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis: Increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (e.g. stroke, transient ischemic attack, including fatalities). INVEGA(R) is not approved for use in patients with dementia-related psychosis (5.2) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome : Manage with immediate discontinuation of drug and close monitoring (5.3) QT Prolongation: Increase in QT interval, avoid use with drugs that also increase QT interval and in patients with risk factors for prolonged QT interval (5.4) Tardive Dyskinesia: Discontinue drug if clinically appropriate (5.5) Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus: Monitor glucose regularly in patients with and at risk for diabetes (5.6) Hyperprolactinemia: Prolactin elevations occur and persist during chronic administration (5.7) Gastrointestinal Narrowing: Obstructive symptoms may result in patients with gastrointestinal disease (5.8) Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope: Use with caution in patients with known cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease and patients predisposed to hypotension (5.9) Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis: has been reported with antipsychotics, including INVEGA(R). Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of INVEGA(R) should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. (5.10) Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment : Use caution when operating machinery (5.11) Seizures: Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold (5.12) Suicide: Closely supervise high-risk patients (5.14) 5.1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. INVEGA(R) (paliperidone) is not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients With Dementia-Related Psychosis In placebo-controlled trials with risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine in elderly subjects with dementia, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks) including fatalities compared to placebo-treated subjects. INVEGA(R) was not marketed at the time these studies were performed. INVEGA(R) is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see also Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs, including paliperidone. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases in which the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system pathology. The management of NMS should include: (1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy; (2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring; and (3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient appears to require antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, reintroduction of drug therapy should be closely monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. 5.4 QT Prolongation Paliperidone causes a modest increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. The use of paliperidone should be avoided in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Paliperidone should also be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias. Certain circumstances may increase the risk of the occurrence of torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval, including (1) bradycardia; (2) hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia; (3) concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval; and (4) presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval. The effects of paliperidone on the QT interval were evaluated in a double-blind, active-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg single dose), multicenter QT study in adults with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, and in three placebo- and active-controlled 6-week, fixed-dose efficacy trials in adults with schizophrenia. In the QT study (n = 141), the 8 mg dose of immediate-release oral paliperidone (n=50) showed a mean placebo-subtracted increase from baseline in QTcLD of 12.3 msec (90% CI: 8.9; 15.6) on day 8 at 1.5 hours post-dose. The mean steady-state peak plasma concentration for this 8 mg dose of paliperidone immediate-release was more than twice the exposure observed with the maximum recommended 12 mg dose of INVEGA(R) (Cmax ss = 113 ng/mL and 45 ng/mL, respectively, when administered with a standard breakfast). In this same study, a 4 mg dose of the immediate-release oral formulation of paliperidone, for which Cmax ss = 35 ng/mL, showed an increased placebo-subtracted QTcLD of 6.8 msec (90% CI: 3.6; 10.1) on day 2 at 1.5 hours post-dose. None of the subjects had a change exceeding 60 msec or a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time during this study. For the three fixed-dose efficacy studies in subjects with schizophrenia, electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements taken at various time points showed only one subject in the INVEGA(R) 12 mg group had a change exceeding 60 msec at one time-point on Day 6 (increase of 62 msec). No subject receiving INVEGA(R) had a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time in any of these three studies. 5.5 Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to predict which patients will develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible appear to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase, but the syndrome can develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses, although this is uncommon. There is no known treatment for established tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and may thus mask the underlying process. The effect of symptomatic suppression on the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, INVEGA(R) should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient treated with INVEGA(R), drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment with INVEGA(R) despite the presence of the syndrome. 5.6 Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus Hyperglycemia, in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, has been reported in patients treated with all atypical antipsychotics. These cases were, for the most part, seen in post-marketing clinical use and epidemiologic studies, not in clinical trials, and there have been few reports of hyperglycemia or diabetes in trial subjects treated with INVEGA(R). Assessment of the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and glucose abnormalities is complicated by the possibility of an increased background risk of diabetes mellitus in patients with schizophrenia and the increasing incidence of diabetes mellitus in the general population. Given these confounders, the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and hyperglycemia-related adverse events is not completely understood. However, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of treatment-emergent hyperglycemia-related adverse events in patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics. Because INVEGA(R) was not marketed at the time these studies were performed, it is not known if INVEGA(R) is associated with this increased risk. Patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Patients with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes) who are starting treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. Any patient treated with atypical antipsychotics should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the atypical antipsychotic was discontinued; however, some patients required continuation of anti-diabetic treatment despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. 5.7 Hyperprolactinemia Like other drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, paliperidone elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration. Paliperidone has a prolactin-elevating effect similar to that seen with risperidone, a drug that is associated with higher levels of prolactin than other antipsychotic drugs. Hyperprolactinemia, regardless of etiology, may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence have been reported in patients receiving prolactin-elevating compounds. Long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male subjects. Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin dependent in vitro, a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is considered in a patient with previously detected breast cancer. An increase in the incidence of pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasia (mammary adenocarcinomas, pituitary and pancreatic adenomas) was observed in the risperidone carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date have shown an association between chronic administration of this class of drugs and tumorigenesis in humans, but the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive. 5.8 Potential for Gastrointestinal Obstruction Because the INVEGA(R) tablet is non-deformable and does not appreciably change in shape in the gastrointestinal tract, INVEGA(R) should ordinarily not be administered to patients with pre-existing severe gastrointestinal narrowing (pathologic or iatrogenic, for example: esophageal motility disorders, small bowel inflammatory disease, \"short gut\" syndrome due to adhesions or decreased transit time, past history of peritonitis, cystic fibrosis, chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, or Meckel's diverticulum). There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of drugs in non-deformable controlled-release formulations. Because of the controlled-release design of the tablet, INVEGA(R) should only be used in patients who are able to swallow the tablet whole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Patient Counseling Information (17.8)]. A decrease in transit time, e.g., as seen with diarrhea, would be expected to decrease bioavailability and an increase in transit time, e.g., as seen with gastrointestinal neuropathy, diabetic gastroparesis, or other causes, would be expected to increase bioavailability. These changes in bioavailability are more likely when the changes in transit time occur in the upper GI tract. 5.9 Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Paliperidone can induce orthostatic hypotension and syncope in some patients because of its alpha-blocking activity. In pooled results of the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose trials in subjects with schizophrenia, syncope was reported in 0.8% (7/850) of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) compared to 0.3% (1/355) of subjects treated with placebo. INVEGA(R) should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, history of myocardial infarction or ischemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension. 5.10 Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis Class Effect: In clinical trial and/or postmarketing experience, events of leukopenia/neutropenia have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents, including INVEGA(R). Agranulocytosis has also been reported. Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC) and history of drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low WBC or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of INVEGA(R) should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1000/mm3) should discontinue INVEGA(R) and have their WBC followed until recovery. 5.11 Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment Somnolence was reported in subjects treated with INVEGA(R) [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)]. Antipsychotics, including INVEGA(R), have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Patients should be cautioned about performing activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating hazardous machinery or operating a motor vehicle, until they are reasonably certain that paliperidone therapy does not adversely affect them. 5.12 Seizures During premarketing clinical trials in subjects with schizophrenia (the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies and a study conducted in elderly schizophrenic subjects), seizures occurred in 0.22% of subjects treated with INVEGA(R) (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) and 0.25% of subjects treated with placebo. Like other antipsychotic drugs, INVEGA(R) should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. 5.13 Dysphagia Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with advanced Alzheimer's dementia. INVEGA(R) and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration pneumonia. 5.14 Suicide The possibility of suicide attempt is inherent in psychotic illnesses, and close supervision of high-risk patients should accompany drug therapy. Prescriptions for INVEGA(R) should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose. 5.15 Priapism Drugs with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have been reported to induce priapism. Priapism has been reported with INVEGA(R) during postmarketing surveillance. Severe priapism may require surgical intervention. 5.16 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) No cases of TTP were observed during clinical studies with paliperidone. Although cases of TTP have been reported in association with risperidone administration, the relationship to risperidone therapy is unknown. 5.17 Body Temperature Regulation Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing INVEGA(R) to patients who will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration. 5.18 Antiemetic Effect An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain drugs or of conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye's syndrome, and brain tumor. 5.19 Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness Clinical experience with INVEGA(R) in patients with certain concomitant illnesses is limited [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies are reported to have an increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medication. Manifestations of this increased sensitivity include confusion, obtundation, postural instability with frequent falls, extrapyramidal symptoms, and clinical features consistent with the neuroleptic malignant syndrome. INVEGA(R) has not been evaluated or used to any appreciable extent in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable heart disease. Patients with these diagnoses were excluded from premarketing clinical trials. Because of the risk of orthostatic hypotension with INVEGA(R), caution should be observed in patients with known cardiovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. 5.20 Monitoring: Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are recommended."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Paliperidone&limit=1&skip=9
Page 9 of 11
        "generic_name": [
          "PALIPERIDONE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Paliperidone"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Centrally-acting drugs: Due to CNS effects, use caution in combination. Avoid alcohol. (7.1) Drugs that may cause orthostatic hypotension: An additive effect may be observed when co-administered with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets. (7.1) Strong CYP3A4/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducers: It may be necessary to increase the dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets when a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine) is co-administered. Conversely, on discontinuation of the strong inducer, it may be necessary to decrease the dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets. (7.2) Co-administration of divalproex sodium increased Cmax and AUC of paliperidone by approximately 50%. Adjust dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets if necessary based on clinical assessment. (7.2) 7.1 Potential for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets to Affect Other Drugs Given the primary CNS effects of paliperidone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)], Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting drugs and alcohol. Paliperidone may antagonize the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension, an additive effect may be observed when Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes. In vitro studies in human liver microsomes showed that paliperidone does not substantially inhibit the metabolism of drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5. Therefore, paliperidone is not expected to inhibit clearance of drugs that are metabolized by these metabolic pathways in a clinically relevant manner. Paliperidone is also not expected to have enzyme inducing properties. Paliperidone is a weak inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) at high concentrations. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets is unlikely. In a drug interaction study, co-administration of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (12 mg once daily for 5 days) with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (500 mg to 2000 mg once daily) did not affect the steady-state pharmacokinetics (AUC24h and Cmax,ss) of valproate in 13 patients stabilized on valproate. In a clinical study, subjects on stable doses of valproate had comparable valproate average plasma concentrations when Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 3-15 mg/day were added to their existing valproate treatment. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Paliperidone is not a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19, so that an interaction with inhibitors or inducers of these isozymes is unlikely. While in vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone metabolism, in vivo studies do not show decreased elimination by these isozymes and they contribute to only a small fraction of total body clearance. In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate. Co-administration of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 6 mg once daily with carbamazepine, a strong inducer of both CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp), at 200 mg twice daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone. A minor decrease in the amount of drug excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be re-evaluated and increased if necessary. Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be re-evaluated and decreased if necessary. Paliperidone is metabolized to a limited extent by CYP2D6 [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In an interaction study in healthy subjects in which a single 3 mg dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was administered concomitantly with 20 mg per day of paroxetine (a potent CYP2D6 inhibitor), paliperidone exposures were on average 16% (90% CI: 4, 30) higher in CYP2D6 extensive metabolizers. Higher doses of paroxetine have not been studied. The clinical relevance is unknown. Co-administration of a single dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 12 mg with divalproex sodium extended-release tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. Dosage reduction for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be considered when Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are co-administered with valproate after clinical assessment. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets is unlikely."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Commonly observed adverse reactions (incidence >= 5% and at least twice that for placebo) were (6) Adults with schizophrenia: extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. Adolescents with schizophrenia: somnolence, akathisia, tremor, dystonia, cogwheel rigidity, anxiety, weight increased, and tachycardia. Adults with schizoaffective disorder: extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Patriot Pharmaceuticals, LLC at 1-800-667-8570 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Overall Adverse Reaction Profile The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cerebrovascular adverse reactions, including stroke, in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Tardive dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Metabolic changes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hyperprolactinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Potential for gastrointestinal obstruction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Orthostatic hypotension and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Potential for cognitive and motor impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Dysphagia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Suicide [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.16)] Disruption of body temperature regulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.17)] Antiemetic effect [see Warnings and Precautions (5.18)] Increased sensitivity in patients with Parkinson's disease or those with dementia with Lewy bodies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] Diseases or conditions that could affect metabolism or hemodynamic responses [see Warnings and Precautions (5.19)] The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and at least twice the placebo rate in any of the dose groups) were extrapyramidal symptoms, tachycardia, and akathisia. The most common adverse reactions in clinical trials in adult patients with schizoaffective disorder (reported in 5% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and at least twice the placebo rate) were extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, dyspepsia, constipation, weight increased, and nasopharyngitis. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizophrenia (causing discontinuation in 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects) were nervous system disorders. The most common adverse reactions that were associated with discontinuation from clinical trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder were gastrointestinal disorders, which resulted in discontinuation in 1% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects. [See Adverse Reactions (6.4)]. The safety of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was evaluated in 1205 adult subjects with schizophrenia who participated in three placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials, of whom 850 subjects received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets at fixed doses ranging from 3 mg to 12 mg once daily. The information presented in this section was derived from pooled data from these three trials. Additional safety information from the placebo-controlled phase of the long-term maintenance study, in which subjects received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets at daily doses within the range of 3 mg to 15 mg (n=104), is also included. The safety of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was evaluated in 150 adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia who received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in the dose range of 1.5 mg to 12 mg/day in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The safety of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was also evaluated in 622 adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder who participated in two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials. In one of these trials, 206 subjects were assigned to one of two dose levels of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets: 6 mg with the option to reduce to 3 mg (n = 108) or 12 mg with the option to reduce to 9 mg (n = 98) once daily. In the other study, 214 subjects received flexible doses of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (3-12 mg once daily). Both studies included subjects who received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets either as monotherapy or as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Adverse events during exposure to study treatment were obtained by general inquiry and recorded by clinical investigators using their own terminology. Consequently, to provide a meaningful estimate of the proportion of individuals experiencing adverse events, events were grouped in standardized categories using MedDRA terminology. Throughout this section, adverse reactions are reported. Adverse reactions are adverse events that were considered to be reasonably associated with the use of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (adverse drug reactions) based on the comprehensive assessment of the available adverse event information. A causal association for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets often cannot be reliably established in individual cases. Further, because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. 6.2 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizophrenia in Adults and Adolescents Adult Patients with Schizophrenia Table 4 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 4. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia in Three Short-Term, Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from three studies; one study included once-daily Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets doses of 3 mg and 9 mg, the second study included 6 mg, 9 mg, and 12 mg, and the third study included 6 mg and 12 mg [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, oculogyration, parkinsonism, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Adverse reactions for which the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets incidence was equal to or less than placebo are not listed in the table, but included the following: vomiting. Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 37 48 47 53 59 Cardiac disorders Atrioventricular block first degree 1 2 0 2 1 Bundle branch block 2 3 1 3 <1 Sinus arrhythmia 0 2 1 1 <1 Tachycardia 7 14 12 12 14 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal pain upper 1 1 3 2 2 Dry mouth 1 2 3 1 3 Salivary hypersecretion <1 0 <1 1 4 General disorders Asthenia 1 2 <1 2 2 Fatigue 1 2 1 2 2 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 3 8 10 Dizziness 4 6 5 4 5 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 10 7 20 18 Headache 12 11 12 14 14 Somnolence 7 6 9 10 11 Vascular disorders Orthostatic hypotension 1 2 1 2 4 Adolescent Patients with Schizophrenia Table 5 lists the adverse reactions reported in a fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescent subjects 12-17 years of age with schizophrenia, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in any of the dose groups, and for which the incidence in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects in any of the dose groups was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 5. Adverse Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Adolescent Subjects with Schizophrenia in a Fixed-Dose, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms oculogyric crisis, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, nuchal rigidity, torticollis, trismus, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle contractions involuntary, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, tremor, and restlessness. Somnolence includes the terms somnolence, sedation, and hypersomnia. Insomnia includes the terms insomnia and initial insomnia. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Hypertension includes the terms hypertension and blood pressure increased. Gynecomastia includes the terms gynecomastia and breast swelling. Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg once daily 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 12 mg once daily Body System or Organ Class (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 43 37 50 58 74 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 0 0 6 9 6 Eye disorders Vision blurred 0 0 0 0 3 Gastrointestinal disorders Dry mouth 2 0 0 0 3 Salivary hypersecretion 0 2 6 2 0 Swollen tongue 0 0 0 0 3 Vomiting 10 0 6 11 3 General disorders Asthenia 0 0 0 2 3 Fatigue 0 4 0 2 3 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 2 4 0 4 0 Investigations Weight increased 0 7 6 2 3 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 0 4 6 11 17 Dizziness 0 2 6 2 3 Extrapyramidal symptoms 0 4 19 18 23 Headache 4 9 6 4 14 Lethargy 0 0 0 0 3 Somnolence 4 9 13 20 26 Tongue paralysis 0 0 0 0 3 Psychiatric disorders Anxiety 4 0 0 2 9 Reproductive system and breast disorders Amenorrhea 0 0 6 0 0 Galactorrhea 0 0 0 4 0 Gynecomastia 0 0 0 0 3 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Epistaxis 0 0 0 2 0 6.3 Commonly-Observed Adverse Reactions in Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials - Schizoaffective Disorder in Adults Table 6 enumerates the pooled incidences of adverse reactions reported in the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects, listing those that occurred in 2% or more of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and for which the incidence in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects was greater than the incidence in subjects treated with placebo. Table 6. Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by >= 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-Treated Adult Subjects with Schizoaffective Disorder in Two Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in any of the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets dose groups and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. Data are pooled from two studies. One study included once-daily Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets doses of 6 mg (with the option to reduce to 3 mg) and 12 mg (with the option to reduce to 9 mg). The second study included flexible once-daily doses of 3 to 12 mg. Among the 420 subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, 230 (55%) received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as monotherapy and 190 (45%) received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. Extrapyramidal symptoms includes the terms bradykinesia, drooling, dyskinesia, dystonia, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle twitching, oculogyration, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism, restlessness, and tremor. Somnolence includes the terms sedation and somnolence. Tachycardia includes the terms tachycardia, sinus tachycardia, and heart rate increased. Percentage of Patients Placebo Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose Body System or Organ Class (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dictionary-Derived Term Total percentage of subjects with adverse reactions 32 48 50 43 Cardiac disorders Tachycardia 2 3 1 2 Gastrointestinal disorders Abdominal discomfort/Abdominal pain upper 1 1 0 3 Constipation 2 4 5 4 Dyspepsia 2 5 6 6 Nausea 6 8 8 5 Stomach discomfort 1 0 1 2 General disorders Asthenia 1 3 4 <1 Infections and Infestations Nasopharyngitis 1 2 5 3 Rhinitis 0 1 3 1 Upper respiratory tract infection 1 2 2 2 Investigations Weight increased 1 5 4 4 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Decreased appetite <1 1 0 2 Increased appetite <1 3 2 2 Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders Back pain 1 1 1 3 Myalgia <1 2 4 1 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 4 4 6 6 Dysarthria 0 1 4 2 Extrapyramidal symptoms 8 20 17 12 Somnolence 5 12 12 8 Psychiatric disorders Sleep disorder <1 2 3 0 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Cough 1 1 3 1 Pharyngolaryngeal pain <1 0 2 1 Monotherapy versus Adjunctive Therapy The designs of the two placebo-controlled, 6-week, double-blind trials in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder included the option for subjects to receive antidepressants (except monoamine oxidase inhibitors) and/or mood stabilizers (lithium, valproate, or lamotrigine). In the subject population evaluated for safety, 230 (55%) subjects received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as monotherapy and 190 (45%) subjects received Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as an adjunct to mood stabilizers and/or antidepressants. When comparing these 2 subpopulations, only nausea occurred at a greater frequency (>= 3% difference) in subjects receiving Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets as monotherapy. 6.4 Discontinuations Due to Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the three schizophrenia placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adults were 3% and 1% in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were nervous system disorders (2% and 0% in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). Among the adverse reactions in the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, only dystonia led to discontinuation (<1% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects). Schizoaffective Disorder Trials The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse reactions in the two schizoaffective disorder placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adults were 1% and <1% in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively. The most common reasons for discontinuation were gastrointestinal disorders (1% and 0% in Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets- and placebo-treated subjects, respectively). 6.5 Dose-Related Adverse Reactions Schizophrenia Trials Based on the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with a greater than 2% incidence in the subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: somnolence, orthostatic hypotension, akathisia, dystonia, extrapyramidal disorder, hypertonia, parkinsonism, and salivary hypersecretion. For most of these, the increased incidence was seen primarily at the 12 mg dose, and, in some cases, the 9 mg dose. In the 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled study in adolescents with schizophrenia, among the adverse reactions that occurred with >2% incidence in the subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, the incidences of the following adverse reactions increased with dose: tachycardia, akathisia, extrapyramidal symptoms, somnolence, and headache. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In a placebo-controlled, 6-week, high- and low-dose study in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, akathisia, dystonia, dysarthria, myalgia, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, cough, and pharyngolaryngeal pain occurred more frequently (i.e., a difference of at least 2%) in subjects who received higher doses of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets compared with subjects who received lower doses. 6.6 Demographic Differences An examination of population subgroups in the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and in the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder did not reveal any evidence of clinically relevant differences in safety on the basis of gender or race alone; there was also no difference on the basis of age [see Use in Specific Populations (8.5)]. 6.7 Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia provided information regarding treatment-emergent EPS. Several methods were used to measure EPS: (1) the Simpson-Angus global score (mean change from baseline) which broadly evaluates Parkinsonism, (2) the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global clinical rating score (mean change from baseline) which evaluates akathisia, (3) use of anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS (Table 7), and (4) incidence of spontaneous reports of EPS (Table 8). For the Simpson-Angus Scale, spontaneous EPS reports and use of anticholinergic medications, there was a dose-related increase observed for the 9 mg and 12 mg doses. There was no difference observed between placebo and Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 3 mg and 6 mg doses for any of these EPS measures. Table 7. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Assessed by Incidence of Ratings Scales and Use of Anticholinergic Medication - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) ParkinsonismFor Parkinsonism, percent of patients with Simpson-Angus global score > 0.3 (Global score defined as total sum of items score divided by the number of items) 9 11 3 15 14 AkathisiaFor Akathisia, percent of patients with Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global score >= 2 6 6 4 7 9 Use of anticholinergic medicationsPercent of patients who received anticholinergic medications to treat emergent EPS 10 10 9 22 22 Table 8. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 9 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=355) (N=127) (N=235) (N=246) (N=242) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle twitching, tardive dyskinesia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration, trismus Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, drooling, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 13 10 25 26 Dyskinesia 3 5 3 8 9 Dystonia 1 1 1 5 5 Hyperkinesia 4 4 3 8 10 Parkinsonism 2 3 3 7 6 Tremor 3 3 3 4 3 Compared to data from the studies in adults subjects with schizophrenia, pooled data from the two placebo-controlled 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder showed similar types and frequencies of EPS as measured by rating scales, anticholinergic medication use, and spontaneous reports of EPS-related adverse events. For subjects with schizoaffective disorder, there was no dose-related increase in EPS observed for parkinsonism with the Simpson-Angus scale or akathisia with the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale. There was a dose-related increase observed with spontaneous EPS reports of hyperkinesia and dystonia and in the use of anticholinergic medications. Table 9 shows the EPS data from the pooled schizoaffective disorder trials. Table 9. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizoaffective Disorder Studies in Adults Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3-6 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 9-12 mg once-daily fixed-dose range 3-12 mg once-daily flexible dose EPS Group (N=202) (N=108) (N=98) (N=214) Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle twitching Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle spasms, oculogyration Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, hyperkinesia, restlessness Parkinsonism group includes: Bradykinesia, drooling, hypertonia, muscle rigidity, muscle tightness, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonian gait, parkinsonism Tremor group includes: Tremor Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 11 23 22 17 Dyskinesia 1 3 1 1 Dystonia 1 2 3 2 Hyperkinesia 5 5 8 7 Parkinsonism 3 14 7 7 Tremor 3 12 11 5 The incidences of EPS-related adverse events in the adolescent schizophrenia studies showed a similar dose-related pattern to those in the adult studies. There were notably higher incidences of dystonia, hyperkinesia, tremor, and parkinsonism in the adolescent population as compared to the adult studies (Table 10). Table 10. Treatment-Emergent Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Adverse Events by MedDRA Preferred Term - Schizophrenia Studies in Adolescent Subjects Percentage of Patients Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg once daily 3 mg once daily 6 mg once daily 12 mg once daily EPS Group (N=51) (N=54) (N=16) (N=45) (N=35) Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia Dystonia group includes: Dystonia, muscle contracture, oculogyric crisis, tongue paralysis, torticollis Tremor group includes: Tremor Parkinsonism group includes: Cogwheel rigidity, extrapyramidal disorder, muscle rigidity Dyskinesia group includes: Dyskinesia, muscle contractions involuntary Overall percentage of patients with EPS-related AE 0 6 25 22 40 Hyperkinesia 0 4 6 11 17 Dystonia 0 2 0 11 14 Tremor 0 2 6 7 11 Parkinsonism 0 0 6 2 14 Dyskinesia 0 2 6 2 6 Dystonia Class Effect: Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. 6.8 Laboratory Test Abnormalities In the pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia and from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, between-group comparisons revealed no medically important differences between Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and placebo in the proportions of subjects experiencing potentially clinically significant changes in routine serum chemistry, hematology, or urinalysis parameters. Similarly, there were no differences between Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and placebo in the incidence of discontinuations due to changes in hematology, urinalysis, or serum chemistry, including mean changes from baseline in fasting glucose, insulin, c-peptide, triglyceride, HDL, LDL, and total cholesterol measurements. However, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were associated with increases in serum prolactin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 6.9 Other Adverse Reactions Observed During Premarketing Evaluation of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets The following additional adverse reactions occurred in < 2% of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects in the above schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder clinical trial datasets. The following also includes additional adverse reactions reported at any frequency by Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects who participated in other clinical studies. Cardiac disorders: bradycardia, palpitations Eye disorders: eye movement disorder Gastrointestinal disorders: flatulence General disorders: edema Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reaction Infections and infestations: urinary tract infection Investigations: alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, pain in extremity Nervous system disorders: opisthotonus Psychiatric disorders: agitation, insomnia, nightmare Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast discomfort, menstruation irregular, retrograde ejaculation Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: nasal congestion Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: pruritus, rash Vascular disorders: hypertension The safety of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets was also evaluated in a long-term trial designed to assess the maintenance of effect with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in adults with schizophrenia [see Clinical Studies (14)]. In general, adverse reaction types, frequencies, and severities during the initial 14-week open-label phase of this study were comparable to those observed in the 6-week, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose studies. Adverse reactions reported during the long-term double-blind phase of this study were similar in type and severity to those observed in the initial 14-week open-label phase. 6.10 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets; because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency: angioedema, ileus, priapism, swollen tongue, tardive dyskinesia, urinary incontinence, urinary retention. 6.11 Adverse Reactions Reported With Risperidone Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone. Adverse reactions reported with risperidone can be found in the ADVERSE REACTIONS section of the risperidone package insert."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions: An increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (e.g. stroke, transient ischemic attack, including fatalities) has been seen in elderly patients with dementia- related psychoses treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.2) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: Manage with immediate discontinuation of drug and close monitoring. (5.3) QT Prolongation: Increase in QT interval, avoid use with drugs that also increase QT interval and in patients with risk factors for prolonged QT interval. (5.4) Tardive Dyskinesia: Discontinue drug if clinically appropriate. (5.5) Metabolic Changes: Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/ cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and weight gain. (5.6) Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus: Monitor patients for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Monitor glucose regularly in patients with diabetes or at risk for diabetes. (5.6) Dyslipidemia: Undesirable alterations have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. (5.6) Weight Gain: Significant weight gain has been reported. Monitor weight gain. (5.6) Hyperprolactinemia: Prolactin elevations occur and persist during chronic administration. (5.7) Gastrointestinal Narrowing: Obstructive symptoms may result in patients with gastrointestinal disease. (5.8) Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope: Use with caution in patients with known cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease and patients predisposed to hypotension. (5.9) Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis: has been reported with antipsychotics, including paliperidone. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. (5.10) Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment: Use caution when operating machinery. (5.11) Seizures: Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold. (5.12) Suicide: Closely supervise high-risk patients. (5.14) 5.1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are not approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients With Dementia-Related Psychosis In placebo-controlled trials with risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine in elderly subjects with dementia, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks) including fatalities compared to placebo-treated subjects. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were not marketed at the time these studies were performed. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see also Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs, including paliperidone. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases in which the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system pathology. The management of NMS should include: (1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy; (2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring; and (3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient appears to require antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, reintroduction of drug therapy should be closely monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. 5.4 QT Prolongation Paliperidone causes a modest increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. The use of paliperidone should be avoided in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Paliperidone should also be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias. Certain circumstances may increase the risk of the occurrence of torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval, including (1) bradycardia; (2) hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia; (3) concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval; and (4) presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval. The effects of paliperidone on the QT interval were evaluated in a double-blind, active-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg single dose), multicenter QT study in adults with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, and in three placebo- and active-controlled 6-week, fixed-dose efficacy trials in adults with schizophrenia. In the QT study (n = 141), the 8 mg dose of immediate-release oral paliperidone (n=50) showed a mean placebo-subtracted increase from baseline in QTcLD of 12.3 msec (90% CI: 8.9; 15.6) on day 8 at 1.5 hours post-dose. The mean steady-state peak plasma concentration for this 8 mg dose of paliperidone immediate-release was more than twice the exposure observed with the maximum recommended 12 mg dose of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (Cmax ss = 113 ng/mL and 45 ng/mL, respectively, when administered with a standard breakfast). In this same study, a 4 mg dose of the immediate-release oral formulation of paliperidone, for which Cmax ss = 35 ng/mL, showed an increased placebo-subtracted QTcLD of 6.8 msec (90% CI: 3.6; 10.1) on day 2 at 1.5 hours post-dose. None of the subjects had a change exceeding 60 msec or a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time during this study. For the three fixed-dose efficacy studies in subjects with schizophrenia, electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements taken at various time points showed only one subject in the Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets 12 mg group had a change exceeding 60 msec at one time-point on Day 6 (increase of 62 msec). No subject receiving Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets had a QTcLD exceeding 500 msec at any time in any of these three studies. 5.5 Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to predict which patients will develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible appear to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase, but the syndrome can develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses, although this is uncommon. There is no known treatment for established tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and may thus mask the underlying process. The effect of symptomatic suppression on the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, drug discontinuation should be considered. However, some patients may require treatment with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets despite the presence of the syndrome. 5.6 Metabolic Changes Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and body weight gain. While all of the drugs in the class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus Hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus, in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, have been reported in patients treated with all atypical antipsychotics. These cases were, for the most part, seen in post-marketing clinical use and epidemiologic studies, not in clinical trials, and there have been few reports of hyperglycemia or diabetes in trial subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets. Assessment of the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and glucose abnormalities is complicated by the possibility of an increased background risk of diabetes mellitus in patients with schizophrenia and the increasing incidence of diabetes mellitus in the general population. Given these confounders, the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and hyperglycemia-related adverse events is not completely understood. However, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of treatment-emergent hyperglycemia-related adverse events in patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics. Because Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were not marketed at the time these studies were performed, it is not known if Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are associated with this increased risk. Patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Patients with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes) who are starting treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. Any patient treated with atypical antipsychotics should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the atypical antipsychotic was discontinued; however, some patients required continuation of anti-diabetic treatment despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1a. Table 1a. Change in Fasting Glucose from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=322 n=122 n=212 n=234 n=218 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -0.7 0.4 2.3 4.3 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 5.1% 3.2% 4.5% 4.8% 3.8% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (12/236) (3/93) (7/156) (9/187) (6/157) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were associated with a mean change in glucose of +3.3 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=570) and +4.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=314). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 1b. Table 1b. Change in Fasting Glucose from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=41 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 0.8 -1.4 -1.8 -0.1 5.2 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Serum Glucose Normal to High 3% 0% 0% 0% 11% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (1/32) (0/34) (0/9) (0/20) (3/27) Dyslipidemia Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. Pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2a. Table 2a. Change in Fasting Lipids from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=331 n=120 n=216 n=236 n=231 Change from baseline -6.3 -4.4 -2.4 -5.3 -4.0 LDL n=322 n=116 n=210 n=231 n=225 Change from baseline -3.2 0.5 -0.8 -3.9 -2.0 HDL n=331 n=119 n=216 n=234 n=230 Change from baseline 0.3 -0.4 0.5 0.8 1.2 Triglycerides n=331 n=120 n=216 n=236 n=231 Change from baseline -22.3 -18.3 -12.6 -10.6 -15.4 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 2.6% 2.8% 5.6% 4.1% 3.1% (<200 mg/dL to >=240 mg/dL) (5/194) (2/71) (7/125) (6/147) (4/130) LDL Normal to High 1.9% 0.0% 5.0% 3.7% 0.0% (<100 mg/dL to >=160 mg/dL) (2/105) (0/44) (3/60) (3/81) (0/69) HDL Normal to Low 22.0% 16.3% 29.1% 23.4% 20.0% ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (44/200) (13/80) (39/134) (32/137) (27/135) Triglycerides Normal to High 5.3% 11.0% 8.8% 8.7% 4.3% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (11/208) (9/82) (12/136) (13/150) (6/139) In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were associated with a mean change in (a) total cholesterol of -1.5 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -1.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317), (b) triglycerides of -6.4 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=573) and -10.5 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=317); (c) LDL of -1.9 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=557) and -2.7 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=297); and (d) HDL of +2.2 mg/dL at Week 24 (n=568) and +3.6 mg/dL at Week 52 (n=302). Data from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) with schizophrenia are presented in Table 2b. Table 2b. Change in Fasting Lipids from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=39 n=45 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -7.8 -3.3 12.7 3.0 -1.5 LDL n=37 n=40 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -4.1 -3.1 7.2 2.4 0.6 HDL n=37 n=41 n=9 n=27 n=31 Change from baseline -1.9 0.0 1.3 1.4 0.0 Triglycerides n=39 n=44 n=11 n=28 n=32 Change from baseline -8.9 3.2 17.6 -5.4 3.9 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 7% 4% 0% 6% 11% (<170 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (2/27) (1/26) (0/6) (1/18) (2/19) LDL Normal to High 3% 4% 14% 0% 9% (<110 mg/dL to >=130 mg/dL) (1/32) (1/25) (1/7) (0/22) (2/22) HDL Normal to Low 14% 7% 29% 13% 23% ( >=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (4/28) (2/30) (2/7) (3/23) (5/22) Triglycerides Normal to High 3% 5% 13% 8% 7% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (1/34) (2/38) (1/8) (2/26) (2/28) Weight Gain Weight gain has been observed with atypical antipsychotic use. Clinical monitoring of weight is recommended. Schizophrenia Trials Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies in adult subjects are presented in Table 3a. Table 3a. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from Three Placebo-Controlled, 6-Week, Fixed-Dose Studies in Adult Subjects with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 9 mg/day 12 mg/day n=323 n=112 n=215 n=235 n=218 Weight (kg) Change from baseline -0.4 0.6 0.6 1.0 1.1 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 5% 7% 6% 9% 9% In the uncontrolled, longer-term open-label extension studies, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets were associated with a mean change in weight of +1.4 kg at Week 24 (n=63) and +2.6 kg at Week 52 (n=302). Weight gain in adolescent subjects with schizophrenia was assessed in a 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study and an open-label extension with a median duration of exposure to Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets of 182 days. Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight [see Clinical Studies (14.1)] from the placebo-controlled 6-week study in adolescent subjects (12-17 years of age) are presented in Table 3b. Table 3b. Mean Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from a Placebo-Controlled 6-Week Study in Adolescent Subjects (12-17 years of age) with Schizophrenia Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets Placebo 1.5 mg/day 3 mg/day 6 mg/day 12 mg/day n=51 n=54 n=16 n=45 n=34 Weight (kg) Change from baseline 0.0 0.3 0.8 1.2 1.5 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 2% 6% 19% 7% 18% In the open-label long-term study the proportion of total subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets with an increase in body weight of >= 7% from baseline was 33%. When treating adolescent patients with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, weight gain should be assessed against that expected with normal growth. When taking into consideration the median duration of exposure to Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in the open-label study (182 days) along with expected normal growth in this population based on age and gender, an assessment of standardized scores relative to normative data provides a more clinically relevant measure of changes in weight. The mean change from open-label baseline to endpoint in standardized score for weight was 0.1 (4% above the median for normative data). Based on comparison to the normative data, these changes are not considered to be clinically significant. Schizoaffective Disorder Trials In the pooled data from the two placebo-controlled, 6-week studies in adult subjects with schizoaffective disorder, a higher percentage of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets-treated subjects (5%) had an increase in body weight of >= 7% compared with placebo-treated subjects (1%). In the study that examined high- and low-dose groups, the increase in body weight of >= 7% was 3% in the low-dose group, 7% in the high-dose group, and 1% in the placebo group. 5.7 Hyperprolactinemia Like other drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, paliperidone elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration. Paliperidone has a prolactin-elevating effect similar to that seen with risperidone, a drug that is associated with higher levels of prolactin than other antipsychotic drugs. Hyperprolactinemia, regardless of etiology, may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence have been reported in patients receiving prolactin-elevating compounds. Long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male subjects. Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin dependent in vitro, a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is considered in a patient with previously detected breast cancer. An increase in the incidence of pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasia (mammary adenocarcinomas, pituitary and pancreatic adenomas) was observed in the risperidone carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date have shown an association between chronic administration of this class of drugs and tumorigenesis in humans, but the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive. 5.8 Potential for Gastrointestinal Obstruction Because Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets are non-deformable and do not appreciably change in shape in the gastrointestinal tract, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should ordinarily not be administered to patients with pre-existing severe gastrointestinal narrowing (pathologic or iatrogenic, for example: esophageal motility disorders, small bowel inflammatory disease, \"short gut\" syndrome due to adhesions or decreased transit time, past history of peritonitis, cystic fibrosis, chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction, or Meckel's diverticulum). There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of drugs in non-deformable controlled-release formulations. Because of the controlled-release design of the tablet, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should only be used in patients who are able to swallow the tablet whole [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Patient Counseling Information (17.8)]. A decrease in transit time, e.g., as seen with diarrhea, would be expected to decrease bioavailability and an increase in transit time, e.g., as seen with gastrointestinal neuropathy, diabetic gastroparesis, or other causes, would be expected to increase bioavailability. These changes in bioavailability are more likely when the changes in transit time occur in the upper GI tract. 5.9 Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Paliperidone can induce orthostatic hypotension and syncope in some patients because of its alpha-blocking activity. In pooled results of the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose trials in subjects with schizophrenia, syncope was reported in 0.8% (7/850) of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) compared to 0.3% (1/355) of subjects treated with placebo. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, history of myocardial infarction or ischemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension. 5.10 Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis Class Effect: In clinical trial and/or postmarketing experience, events of leukopenia/neutropenia have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents, including Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets. Agranulocytosis has also been reported. Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC) and history of drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low WBC or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia should have their complete blood count (CBC) monitored frequently during the first few months of therapy and discontinuation of Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1000/mm3) should discontinue Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and have their WBC followed until recovery. 5.11 Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment Somnolence was reported in subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2)]. Antipsychotics, including Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Patients should be cautioned about performing activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating hazardous machinery or operating a motor vehicle, until they are reasonably certain that paliperidone therapy does not adversely affect them. 5.12 Seizures During premarketing clinical trials in subjects with schizophrenia (the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose studies and a study conducted in elderly schizophrenic subjects), seizures occurred in 0.22% of subjects treated with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets (3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, 12 mg) and 0.25% of subjects treated with placebo. Like other antipsychotic drugs, Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. 5.13 Dysphagia Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use. Aspiration pneumonia is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with advanced Alzheimer's dementia. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration pneumonia. 5.14 Suicide The possibility of suicide attempt is inherent in psychotic illnesses, and close supervision of high-risk patients should accompany drug therapy. Prescriptions for Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets should be written for the smallest quantity of tablets consistent with good patient management in order to reduce the risk of overdose. 5.15 Priapism Drugs with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have been reported to induce priapism. Priapism has been reported with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets during postmarketing surveillance. Severe priapism may require surgical intervention. 5.16 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) No cases of TTP were observed during clinical studies with paliperidone. Although cases of TTP have been reported in association with risperidone administration, the relationship to risperidone therapy is unknown. 5.17 Body Temperature Regulation Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets to patients who will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration. 5.18 Antiemetic Effect An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain drugs or of conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye's syndrome, and brain tumor. 5.19 Use in Patients with Concomitant Illness Clinical experience with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets in patients with certain concomitant illnesses is limited [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Patients with Parkinson's Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies are reported to have an increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medication. Manifestations of this increased sensitivity include confusion, obtundation, postural instability with frequent falls, extrapyramidal symptoms, and clinical features consistent with the neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets have not been evaluated or used to any appreciable extent in patients with a recent history of myocardial infarction or unstable heart disease. Patients with these diagnoses were excluded from premarketing clinical trials. Because of the risk of orthostatic hypotension with Paliperidone Extended-Release Tablets, caution should be observed in patients with known cardiovascular disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. 5.20 Monitoring: Laboratory Tests No specific laboratory tests are recommended."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Paliperidone&limit=1&skip=10
Page 10 of 11
        "generic_name": [
          "PALIPERIDONE PALMITATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "INVEGA TRINZA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong CYP3A4/P-glycoprotein (P-gp) inducers: Avoid using a strong inducer of CYP3A4 and/or P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin, St John's Wort) during a dosing interval for INVEGA TRINZA(R). If administering a strong inducer is necessary, consider managing the patient using paliperidone extended release tablets. (7.2, 12.3) 7.1 Drugs Having Clinically Important Interactions with INVEGA TRINZA(R) Because paliperidone palmitate is hydrolyzed to paliperidone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)], results from studies with oral paliperidone should be taken into consideration when assessing drug-drug interaction potential. In addition, consider the 3-month dosing interval and long half-life of INVEGA TRINZA(R) [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Table 11. Clinically Important Drug Interactions with INVEGA TRINZA(R) Concomitant Drug Name or Drug Class Clinical Rationale Clinical Recommendation Drugs with Potential for Inducing Orthostatic Hypotension Because INVEGA TRINZA(R) has the potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension, an additive effect may occur when INVEGA TRINZA(R) is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Monitor orthostatic vital signs in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Strong Inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin, or St. John's Wort) The concomitant use of paliperidone and strong inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp may decrease the exposure of paliperidone [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Avoid using CYP3A4 and/or P-gp inducers with INVEGA TRINZA(R) during the 3-month dosing interval, if possible. If administering a strong inducer is necessary, consider managing the patient using paliperidone extended-release tablets [see Dosage and Administration (2.7)]. Levodopa and Other Dopamine Agonists Paliperidone may antagonize the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Monitor and manage patient as clinically appropriate. 7.2 Drugs Having No Clinically Important Interactions with INVEGA TRINZA(R) Based on pharmacokinetic studies with oral paliperidone, no dosage adjustment of INVEGA TRINZA(R) is required when administered concomitantly with valproate [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Additionally, no dosage adjustment is necessary for valproate when co-administered with INVEGA TRINZA(R) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Pharmacokinetic interaction between lithium and INVEGA TRINZA(R) is unlikely. Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450 isozymes. In vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be involved in paliperidone metabolism; however, there is no evidence in vivo that inhibitors of these enzymes significantly affect the metabolism of paliperidone. Paliperidone is not a substrate of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP2C19; an interaction with inhibitors or inducers of these isozymes is unlikely. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following are discussed in more detail in other sections of the labeling: Increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cerebrovascular adverse reactions, including stroke, in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Neuroleptic malignant syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] QT prolongation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Tardive dyskinesia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Metabolic changes [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Orthostatic hypotension and syncope [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Hyperprolactinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Potential for cognitive and motor impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Seizures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Dysphagia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] Priapism [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Disruption of body temperature regulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] The most common adverse reactions (incidence >= 5% and occurring at least twice as often as placebo) were injection site reaction, weight increased, headache, upper respiratory tract infection, akathisia, and parkinsonism. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. at 1-800-JANSSEN (1-800-526-7736) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Patient Exposure The data described in this section include data from two clinical trials. One is a long-term maintenance trial, in which 506 subjects with schizophrenia received several doses of the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release injectable suspension during the open-label phase, of which 379 subjects continued to receive a single injection of INVEGA TRINZA(R) during the open-label phase, and 160 subjects were subsequently randomized to receive at least one dose of INVEGA TRINZA(R) and 145 subjects received placebo during the double-blind placebo-controlled phase. The mean (SD) duration of exposure during the double-blind phase was 150 (79) days in the placebo group and 175 (90) days in the INVEGA TRINZA(R) group. The other is a Phase 1 study (N=308), which included patients with schizophrenia who received a single injection of INVEGA TRINZA(R) concomitantly with other oral antipsychotics. Adverse Reactions in a Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled (Long-Term Maintenance) Clinical Trial Commonly Observed Adverse Reactions: The most common adverse reactions (incidence at least 5% in the open-label phase, or in the INVEGA TRINZA(R) group and at least twice the incidence in the placebo group during the double-blind phase) were injection site reaction, weight increased, headache, upper respiratory tract infection, akathisia, and parkinsonism. Discontinuation of Treatment Due to Adverse Events: The percentages of subjects who discontinued due to adverse events in the long-term maintenance trial were 5.1% during the open-label phase. During the double-blind phase, no INVEGA TRINZA(R)-treated subject and one placebo-treated subject discontinued due to adverse events. Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence of 2% or More in INVEGA TRINZA(R)Treated Patients: The safety profile of INVEGA TRINZA(R) was similar to that seen with the 1-month paliperidone extended-release injectable suspension. Table 8 lists the adverse reactions reported in a long-term maintenance trial in subjects with schizophrenia. Table 8. Incidences of Adverse Reactions 2% or More of INVEGA TRINZA(R)-Treated Patients (and Greater than Placebo) for the Open-Label and Double-Blind Phases of a Long-Term Maintenance Trial in Patients with Schizophrenia --- Open Label----- ------------ Double Blind ------------- Paliperidone PalmitateDuring the open-label phase, subjects received several doses of the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release injectable suspension followed by a single dose of INVEGA TRINZA(R) prior to randomization to either placebo or INVEGA TRINZA(R) in the subsequent double-blind phase [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Placebo INVEGA TRINZA(R) System Organ Class (N=506) (N=145) (N=160) Adverse ReactionThe following terms were combined: Injection site reaction includes Injection site reaction, Injection site erythema, Injection site extravasation, Injection site induration, Injection site inflammation, Injection site mass, Injection site nodule, Injection site pain, Injection site swelling. Weight increased includes Weight increased, Waist circumference increased. Upper respiratory tract infection includes Upper respiratory tract infection, Nasopharyngitis, Pharyngitis, Rhinitis. Akathisia includes Akasthisia, Restlessness. Parkinsonism includes Parkinsonism, Cogwheel rigidity, Drooling, Extrapyramidal disorder, Hypokinesia, Muscle rigidity, Muscle tightness, Musculoskeletal stiffness, Salivary hypersecretion. %Incidence is based on the number of subjects experiencing at least one adverse event, not the number of events. % % Table includes adverse reactions that were reported in 2% or more of subjects in the INVEGA TRINZA(R) group during the double-blind phase and which occurred at greater incidence than in the placebo group. General disorders and administration site conditions Injection site reaction 12 0 3 Infections and infestations Upper respiratory tract infection 5 4 10 Urinary tract infection <1 1 3 Metabolism and nutrition disorders Weight increased 10 3 9 Nervous system disorders Akathisia 5 2 5 Headache 7 4 9 Parkinsonism 5 0 4 Demographic Differences An examination of population subgroups in the long-term maintenance trial did not reveal any evidence of differences in safety on the basis of age, gender, or race alone; however, there were few subjects 65 years of age and older. Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Data from the long-term maintenance trial provided information regarding EPS. Several methods were used to measure EPS: (1) the Simpson-Angus global score which broadly evaluates parkinsonism, (2) the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global clinical rating score which evaluates akathisia, (3) the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale scores which evaluates dyskinesia, and (4) use of anticholinergic medications to treat EPS (Table 9), and (5) incidence of spontaneous reports of EPS (Table 10). Table 9. Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS) Assessed by Incidence of Rating Scales and Use of Anticholinergic Medication Percentage of Subjects Open-label Phase Double-blind Phase Paliperidone PalmitateDuring the open-label phase, subjects received several doses of the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release injectable suspension followed by a single dose of INVEGA TRINZA(R) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Placebo INVEGA TRINZA(R) Scale (N=506) % (N=145) % (N=160) % ParkinsonismFor Parkinsonism, percent of subjects with Simpson-Angus Total score > 0.3 at any time (Global score defined as total sum of items score divided by the number of items) 6 3 6 AkathisiaFor Akathisia, percent of subjects with Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale global score >= 2 at any time 3 1 4 DyskinesiaFor Dyskinesia, percent of subjects with a score >= 3 on any of the first 7 items or a score >= 2 on two or more of any of the first 7 items of the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale at any time 1 3 3 Use of Anticholinergic MedicationsPercent of subjects who received anticholinergic medications to treat EPS 11 9 11 Table 10. Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)-Related Events by MedDRA Preferred Term Percentage of Subjects Open-label Phase Double-blind Phase Paliperidone PalmitateDuring the open-label phase, subjects received several doses of the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release injectable suspension followed by a single dose of INVEGA TRINZA(R) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Placebo INVEGA TRINZA(R) EPS Group (N=506) % (N=145) % (N=160) % Parkinsonism group includes: Cogwheel rigidity, drooling, extrapyramidal disorder, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, muscle tightness, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism Hyperkinesia group includes: Akathisia, restlessness Dystonia group includes: Blepharospasm, dystonia, muscle spasms Overall percentage of subjects with EPS-related adverse events 10 3 8 Parkinsonism 4 0 4 Hyperkinesia 5 2 5 Tremor 2 0 1 Dyskinesia <1 1 1 Dystonia 1 0 1 After injection of INVEGA TRINZA(R) in the open-label phase, 12 (3.2%) subjects had EPS that were new or worsened in severity, with events under the groupings of hyperkinesia (1.6%) and parkinsonism (1.3%) being the most common. After injection of INVEGA TRINZA(R) in the open-label or double-blind phases, one subject discontinued from the open-label phase due to restlessness. An examination of the time to EPS during the double-blind phase showed no clustering of these events at visits that would be expected to correspond to median peak plasma concentrations of paliperidone for subjects randomized to INVEGA TRINZA(R). Dystonia Symptoms of dystonia, prolonged abnormal contractions of muscle groups, may occur in susceptible individuals during the first few days of treatment. Dystonic symptoms include: spasm of the neck muscles, sometimes progressing to tightness of the throat, swallowing difficulty, difficulty breathing, and/or protrusion of the tongue. While these symptoms can occur at low doses, they occur more frequently and with greater severity with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs. An elevated risk of acute dystonia is observed in males and younger age groups. Pain Assessment and Local Injection Site Reactions Investigator ratings of injection site. Redness and swelling were observed in 2% or less of subjects in the INVEGA TRINZA(R) and placebo groups during the double-blind phase of the long-term maintenance study, and were rated mild based on investigator ratings using a 4-point scale (0=absent; 1=mild; 2=moderate; 3=severe). There were no reports of induration in either group during the double-blind phase and no subjects discontinued due to INVEGA TRINZA(R) injection. Subject ratings of injection site pain. Subject evaluations of injection pain during the double-blind phase also were similar for placebo and INVEGA TRINZA(R). Subject ratings of injection site pain in the single-dose Phase 1 study allowed for assessment of the temporal course of injection site pain. Residual injection pain peaked 1 or 6 hours after injection, and trended downward 3 days after the injection. Deltoid injections were numerically more painful than gluteal injections, although most pain ratings were below 10 mm on a 100-mm scale. Other Adverse Reactions Observed During the Clinical Trial Evaluation of INVEGA TRINZA(R) The following additional adverse reactions were identified in the long-term maintenance trial. The following list does not include reactions: 1) already listed in previous tables or elsewhere in labeling, 2) for which a drug cause was remote, 3) which were so general as to be uninformative, 4) which were not considered to have significant clinical implications, or 5) occurred at an incidence lower than that of placebo-treated patients. Cardiac disorders: tachycardia Gastrointestinal disorders: nausea, vomiting Metabolism and nutrition disorders: hyperinsulinemia Psychiatric disorders: anxiety Additional Adverse Reactions Reported in Clinical Trials with the 1-Month Paliperidone Palmitate Extended-Release Injectable Suspension The following is a list of additional adverse reactions that have been reported in clinical trials with the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release injectable suspension: Cardiac disorders: atrioventricular block first degree, bradycardia, bundle branch block, palpitations, postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome Ear and labyrinth disorders: vertigo Eye disorders: eye movement disorder, eye rolling, oculogyric crisis, vision blurred Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal discomfort/abdominal pain upper, diarrhea, dry mouth, toothache General disorders and administration site conditions: asthenia, fatigue Immune system disorders: hypersensitivity Investigations: electrocardiogram abnormal Metabolism and nutrition disorders: decreased appetite, increased appetite Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: back pain, myalgia, pain in extremity, joint stiffness, muscle spasms, muscle twitching, nuchal rigidity Nervous system disorders: bradykinesia, cerebrovascular accident, convulsion, dizziness, dizziness postural, dysarthria, hypertonia, lethargy, oromandibular dystonia, psychomotor hyperactivity, syncope Psychiatric disorders: agitation, nightmare Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast discharge, erectile dysfunction, gynecomastia, menstrual disorder, menstruation delayed, menstruation irregular, sexual dysfunction Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: cough Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: drug eruption, pruritus, pruritus generalized, rash, urticaria Vascular disorders: hypertension Additional Adverse Reactions Reported in Clinical Trials with Oral Paliperidone The following is a list of additional adverse reactions that have been reported in clinical trials with oral paliperidone: Cardiac disorders: bundle branch block left, sinus arrhythmia Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal pain, constipation, flatulence, small intestinal obstruction General disorders and administration site conditions: edema, edema peripheral Immune system disorders: anaphylactic reaction Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain, torticollis, trismus Nervous system disorders: grand mal convulsion, parkinsonian gait, transient ischemic attack Psychiatric disorders: sleep disorder Reproductive system and breast disorders: breast engorgement, breast tenderness/breast pain, retrograde ejaculation Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: nasal congestion, pharyngolaryngeal pain, pneumonia aspiration Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: rash papular Vascular disorders: hypotension, ischemia 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of paliperidone; because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure: angioedema, ileus, swollen tongue, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, urinary incontinence, and urinary retention. Cases of anaphylactic reaction after injection with the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release suspension have been reported during postmarketing experience in patients who have previously tolerated oral risperidone or oral paliperidone. Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone. Adverse reactions reported with oral risperidone and risperidone long-acting injection can be found in the Adverse Reactions (6) sections of the package inserts for those products."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis: Increased incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (e.g. stroke, transient ischemic attack, including fatalities). INVEGA TRINZA(R) is not approved for use in patients with dementia-related psychosis (5.2) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: Manage with immediate discontinuation of drug and close monitoring (5.3) QT Prolongation: Avoid use with drugs that also increase QT interval and in patients with risk factors for prolonged QT interval (5.4) Tardive Dyskinesia: Discontinue drug if clinically appropriate (5.5) Metabolic Changes: Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include: Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus: Monitor for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Monitor glucose regularly in patients with diabetes or at risk for diabetes. (5.6) Dyslipidemia: Undesirable alterations have been observed. (5.6) Weight Gain: Significant weight gain has been reported. Monitor weight gain. (5.6) Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope: Use with caution in patients with known cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease and patients predisposed to hypotension (5.7) Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis: Monitor complete blood count in patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. Consider discontinuation if clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors (5.8) Hyperprolactinemia: Prolactin elevations occur and persist during chronic administration (5.9) Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment: Use caution when operating machinery (5.10) Seizures: Use cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold (5.11) 5.1 Increased Mortality in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death. Analyses of 17 placebo-controlled trials (modal duration of 10 weeks), largely in patients taking atypical antipsychotic drugs, revealed a risk of death in drug-treated patients of between 1.6 to 1.7 times the risk of death in placebo-treated patients. Over the course of a typical 10-week controlled trial, the rate of death in drug-treated patients was about 4.5%, compared to a rate of about 2.6% in the placebo group. Although the causes of death were varied, most of the deaths appeared to be either cardiovascular (e.g., heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (e.g., pneumonia) in nature. Observational studies suggest that, similar to atypical antipsychotic drugs, treatment with conventional antipsychotic drugs may increase mortality. The extent to which the findings of increased mortality in observational studies may be attributed to the antipsychotic drug as opposed to some characteristic(s) of the patients is not clear. INVEGA TRINZA(R) is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 5.2 Cerebrovascular Adverse Reactions, Including Stroke, in Elderly Patients with Dementia-Related Psychosis In placebo-controlled trials with risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine in elderly subjects with dementia, there was a higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks) including fatalities compared to placebo-treated subjects. No studies have been conducted with oral paliperidone, the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release injectable suspension, or INVEGA TRINZA(R) in elderly patients with dementia. These medications are not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 5.3 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome A potentially fatal symptom complex sometimes referred to as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) has been reported in association with antipsychotic drugs, including paliperidone. Clinical manifestations of NMS are hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and evidence of autonomic instability (irregular pulse or blood pressure, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and cardiac dysrhythmia). Additional signs may include elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis), and acute renal failure. The diagnostic evaluation of patients with this syndrome is complicated. In arriving at a diagnosis, it is important to identify cases in which the clinical presentation includes both serious medical illness (e.g., pneumonia, systemic infection, etc.) and untreated or inadequately treated extrapyramidal signs and symptoms (EPS). Other important considerations in the differential diagnosis include central anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, drug fever, and primary central nervous system pathology. The management of NMS should include: (1) immediate discontinuation of antipsychotic drugs and other drugs not essential to concurrent therapy; (2) intensive symptomatic treatment and medical monitoring; and (3) treatment of any concomitant serious medical problems for which specific treatments are available. Consideration should be given to the long-acting nature of INVEGA TRINZA(R). There is no general agreement about specific pharmacological treatment regimens for uncomplicated NMS. If a patient appears to require antipsychotic drug treatment after recovery from NMS, reintroduction of drug therapy should be closely monitored, since recurrences of NMS have been reported. 5.4 QT Prolongation Paliperidone causes a modest increase in the corrected QT (QTc) interval. The use of paliperidone should be avoided in combination with other drugs that are known to prolong QTc including Class 1A (e.g., quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g., amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic medications, antipsychotic medications (e.g., chlorpromazine, thioridazine), antibiotics (e.g., gatifloxacin, moxifloxacin), or any other class of medications known to prolong the QTc interval. Paliperidone should also be avoided in patients with congenital long QT syndrome and in patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias. Certain circumstances may increase the risk of the occurrence of Torsades de pointes and/or sudden death in association with the use of drugs that prolong the QTc interval, including (1) bradycardia; (2) hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia; (3) concomitant use of other drugs that prolong the QTc interval; and (4) presence of congenital prolongation of the QT interval. The effects of paliperidone on the QT interval were evaluated in a double-blind, active-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg single dose), multicenter Thorough QT study with oral paliperidone in adult patients, and in four fixed-dose efficacy studies and one maintenance study of the 1-month paliperidone palmitate injectable product. In the Thorough QT study (n=141), the 8 mg dose of immediate-release oral paliperidone (n=50) showed a mean placebo-subtracted increase from baseline in QTcLD (QT interval corrected for heart rate using the population specified linear derived method) of 12.3 msec (90% CI: 8.9; 15.6) on day 8 at 1.5 hours post-dose. The mean steady-state peak plasma concentration for this 8 mg dose of paliperidone immediate release (Cmax ss=113 ng/mL) was approximately 2-fold the exposure with the maximum recommended 819 mg dose of INVEGA TRINZA(R) administered in the deltoid muscle (predicted median Cmax ss=56 ng/mL). In this same study, a 4 mg dose of the immediate-release oral formulation of paliperidone, for which Cmax ss=35 ng/mL, showed an increased placebo-subtracted QTcLD of 6.8 msec (90% CI: 3.6; 10.1) on day 2 at 1.5 hours post-dose. In the four fixed-dose efficacy studies of the 1-month paliperidone palmitate injectable product, no subject had a change in QTcLD exceeding 60 msec and no subject had a QTcLD value of > 500 msec at any time point. In the maintenance study, no subject had a QTcLD change > 60 msec, and one subject had a QTcLD value of 507 msec (Bazett's QT corrected interval [QTcB] value of 483 msec); this latter subject also had a heart rate of 45 beats per minute. In the long-term maintenance trial of INVEGA TRINZA(R) in subjects with schizophrenia, an increase in QTcLD exceeding 60 msec was observed in 1 subject (< 1%) in the open-label phase, no subject had an increase in QTcLD exceeding 60 msec after treatment with INVEGA TRINZA(R) in the double-blind phase, and no subject had a QTcLD value of > 480 msec at any point in the study. 5.5 Tardive Dyskinesia A syndrome of potentially irreversible, involuntary, dyskinetic movements may develop in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs. Although the prevalence of the syndrome appears to be highest among the elderly, especially elderly women, it is impossible to predict which patients will develop the syndrome. Whether antipsychotic drug products differ in their potential to cause tardive dyskinesia is unknown. The risk of developing tardive dyskinesia and the likelihood that it will become irreversible appear to increase as the duration of treatment and the total cumulative dose of antipsychotic drugs administered to the patient increase, but the syndrome can develop after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses, although this is uncommon. There is no known treatment for established tardive dyskinesia, although the syndrome may remit, partially or completely, if antipsychotic treatment is withdrawn. Antipsychotic treatment itself may suppress (or partially suppress) the signs and symptoms of the syndrome and may thus mask the underlying process. The effect of symptomatic suppression on the long-term course of the syndrome is unknown. Given these considerations, INVEGA TRINZA(R) should be prescribed in a manner that is most likely to minimize the occurrence of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic antipsychotic treatment should generally be reserved for patients who suffer from a chronic illness that is known to respond to antipsychotic drugs. In patients who do require chronic treatment, the smallest dose and the shortest duration of treatment producing a satisfactory clinical response should be sought. The need for continued treatment should be reassessed periodically. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear in a patient treated with INVEGA TRINZA(R), drug discontinuation should be considered. Consideration should be given to the long-acting nature of INVEGA TRINZA(R). However, some patients may require treatment with INVEGA TRINZA(R) despite the presence of the syndrome. 5.6 Metabolic Changes Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that may increase cardiovascular/cerebrovascular risk. These metabolic changes include hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and body weight gain. While all of the drugs in the class have been shown to produce some metabolic changes, each drug has its own specific risk profile. Hyperglycemia and Diabetes Mellitus Hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus, in some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, have been reported in patients treated with all atypical antipsychotics. These cases were, for the most part, seen in post-marketing clinical use and epidemiologic studies, not in clinical trials. Hyperglycemia and diabetes have been reported in trial subjects treated with INVEGA TRINZA(R). Assessment of the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and glucose abnormalities is complicated by the possibility of an increased background risk of diabetes mellitus in patients with schizophrenia and the increasing incidence of diabetes mellitus in the general population. Given these confounders, the relationship between atypical antipsychotic use and hyperglycemia-related adverse events is not completely understood. However, epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of hyperglycemia-related adverse reactions in patients treated with the atypical antipsychotics. Patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose control. Patients with risk factors for diabetes mellitus (e.g., obesity, family history of diabetes) who are starting treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing at the beginning of treatment and periodically during treatment. Any patient treated with atypical antipsychotics should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycemia including polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and weakness. Patients who develop symptoms of hyperglycemia during treatment with atypical antipsychotics should undergo fasting blood glucose testing. In some cases, hyperglycemia has resolved when the atypical antipsychotic was discontinued; however, some patients required continuation of anti-diabetic treatment despite discontinuation of the suspect drug. Data from the long-term maintenance trial with INVEGA TRINZA(R) in subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 5. Table 5. Change in Fasting Glucose from the Long-Term Maintenance Trial with INVEGA TRINZA(R) in Subjects with Schizophrenia Open-Label Phase (relative to open-label baseline) Double-Blind Phase (relative to double-blind baseline) Paliperidone PalmitateDuring the open-label phase, subjects received several doses of the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release injectable suspension followed by a single dose of INVEGA TRINZA(R) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Placebo INVEGA TRINZA(R) Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) n=397 n=120 n=138 Serum Glucose Change from baseline 1.2 -1.6 -1.2 Proportion of Patients with Shifts n=397 n=128 n=148 Serum Glucose Normal to High 2.3% 2.3% 4.1% (<100 mg/dL to >=126 mg/dL) (9/397) (3/128) (6/148) Dyslipidemia Undesirable alterations in lipids have been observed in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics. Data from the long-term maintenance trial with INVEGA TRINZA(R) in subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 6. Table 6. Change in Fasting Lipids from the Long-Term Maintenance Trial with INVEGA TRINZA(R) in Subjects with Schizophrenia Open-Label Phase (relative to open-label baseline) Double-Blind Phase (relative to double-blind baseline) Paliperidone PalmitateDuring the open-label phase, subjects received several doses of the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release injectable suspension followed by a single dose of INVEGA TRINZA(R) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Placebo INVEGA TRINZA(R) Mean change from baseline (mg/dL) Cholesterol n=400 n=120 n=138 Change from baseline 0.5 -0.4 0.9 LDL n=396 n=119 n=138 Change from baseline 1.1 -0.4 1.1 HDL n=397 n=119 n=138 Change from baseline -0.2 -0.5 -1.3 Triglycerides n=400 n=120 n=138 Change from baseline 0.1 -2.0 5.1 Proportion of Patients with Shifts Cholesterol Normal to High 2.0% 3.9% 1.4% (<200 mg/dL to >=240 mg/dL) (8/400) (5/128) (2/148) LDL Normal to High 0.3% 0.8% 0% (<100 mg/dL to >=160 mg/dL) (1/396) (1/127) (0/148) HDL Normal to Low 8.6% 9.4% 13.5% (>=40 mg/dL to <40 mg/dL) (34/397) (12/127) (20/148) Triglycerides Normal to High 4.5% 1.6% 8.1% (<150 mg/dL to >=200 mg/dL) (18/400) (2/128) (12/148) Weight Gain Weight gain has been observed with atypical antipsychotic use. Clinical monitoring of weight is recommended. Data on mean changes in body weight and the proportion of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of >= 7% of body weight from the long-term maintenance trial with INVEGA TRINZA(R) in subjects with schizophrenia are presented in Table 7. Table 7. Change in Body Weight (kg) and the Proportion of Subjects with >= 7% Gain in Body Weight from the Long-Term Maintenance Trial with INVEGA TRINZA(R) in Subjects with Schizophrenia Open-Label Phase (relative to open-label baseline) Double-Blind Phase (relative to double-blind baseline) Paliperidone PalmitateDuring the open-label phase, subjects received several doses of the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release injectable suspension followed by a single dose of INVEGA TRINZA(R) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Placebo INVEGA TRINZA(R) n=466 n=142 n=157 Weight (kg) Change from baseline 1.42 -1.28 0.94 Weight Gain >= 7% increase from baseline 15.2% 0.7% 9.6% 5.7 Orthostatic Hypotension and Syncope Paliperidone can induce orthostatic hypotension and syncope in some patients because of its alpha-adrenergic blocking activity. In the long-term maintenance trial, syncope was reported in < 1% (1/506) of subjects treated with the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release injectable suspension during the open-label phase; there were no cases reported during the double-blind phase in either treatment group. In the long-term maintenance trial, orthostatic hypotension was reported as an adverse event by < 1% (1/506) of subjects treated with the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release injectable suspension and < 1% (1/379) of subjects after receiving a single-dose of INVEGA TRINZA(R) during the open-label phase; there were no cases reported during the double-blind phase in either treatment group. INVEGA TRINZA(R) should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, history of myocardial infarction or ischemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration, hypovolemia, and treatment with antihypertensive medications). Monitoring of orthostatic vital signs should be considered in patients who are vulnerable to hypotension. 5.8 Leukopenia, Neutropenia, and Agranulocytosis In clinical trial and/or postmarketing experience, events of leukopenia and neutropenia have been reported temporally related to antipsychotic agents, including INVEGA TRINZA(R). Agranulocytosis has also been reported. Possible risk factors for leukopenia/neutropenia include pre-existing low white blood cell count (WBC)/absolute neutrophil count (ANC) and history of drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia. In patients with a history of a clinically significant low WBC/ANC or a drug-induced leukopenia/neutropenia, perform a complete blood count (CBC) frequently during the first few months of therapy. In such patients, consider discontinuation of INVEGA TRINZA(R) at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Monitor patients with clinically significant neutropenia for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Discontinue INVEGA TRINZA(R) in patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count <1000/mm3) and follow their WBC until recovery. 5.9 Hyperprolactinemia Like other drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, paliperidone elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration. Paliperidone has a prolactin-elevating effect similar to that seen with risperidone, a drug that is associated with higher levels of prolactin than other antipsychotic drugs. Hyperprolactinemia, regardless of etiology, may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. This, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients. Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence have been reported in patients receiving prolactin-elevating compounds. Long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male subjects. Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin dependent in vitro, a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is considered in a patient with previously detected breast cancer. An increase in the incidence of pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasia (mammary adenocarcinomas, pituitary and pancreatic adenomas) was observed in the risperidone carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)]. Neither clinical studies nor epidemiologic studies conducted to date have shown an association between chronic administration of this class of drugs and tumorigenesis in humans, but the available evidence is too limited to be conclusive. In a long-term maintenance trial of INVEGA TRINZA(R), elevations of prolactin to above the reference range (>13.13 ng/mL in males and >26.72 ng/mL in females) relative to open-label baseline at any time during the double-blind phase were noted in a higher percentage of males in the INVEGA TRINZA(R) group than in the placebo group (46% vs. 25%) and in a higher percentage of females in the INVEGA TRINZA(R) group than in the placebo group (32% vs. 15%). During the double-blind phase, 1 female (2.4%) in the INVEGA TRINZA(R) group experienced an adverse reaction of amenorrhea, while no potentially prolactin-related adverse reactions were noted among females in the placebo group. There were no potentially prolactin-related adverse reactions among males in either group. Prior to the double-blind phase (during the 29-week open-label phase of the long-term maintenance trial), the mean (SD) serum prolactin values at baseline in males (N=368) were 17.1 (13.55) ng/mL and 51.6 (40.85) ng/mL in females (N=122). Twelve weeks after a single injection of INVEGA TRINZA(R) at the end of the open-label phase, mean (SD) prolactin values were 25.8 (13.49) ng/mL in males (N=322) and 70.6 (40.23) ng/mL in females (N=107). During the open-label phases 27% of females and 42% of males experienced elevations of prolactin above the reference range relative to baseline, and a higher proportion of females experienced potentially prolactin-related adverse reactions compared to males (7.9% vs. 3.7%). Amenorrhea (4.7%) and galactorrhea (3.1%) were the most commonly observed (>=3%) potentially prolactin-related adverse reactions in females. Among males in the open-label phase, no potentially prolactin-related adverse reaction was observed with a rate greater than 3%. 5.10 Potential for Cognitive and Motor Impairment Somnolence, sedation, and dizziness were reported as adverse reactions in subjects treated with INVEGA TRINZA(R) [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Antipsychotics, including INVEGA TRINZA(R), have the potential to impair judgment, thinking, or motor skills. Patients should be cautioned about performing activities requiring mental alertness, such as operating hazardous machinery or operating a motor vehicle, until they are reasonably certain that paliperidone therapy does not adversely affect them. 5.11 Seizures In the long-term maintenance trial there were no reports of seizures or convulsions. In the pivotal clinical studies with the 1-month paliperidone palmitate extended-release injectable suspension which included four fixed-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in subjects with schizophrenia, <1% (1/1293) of subjects treated with the 1-month injection experienced an adverse event of convulsion compared with <1% (1/510) of placebo-treated subjects who experienced an adverse event of grand mal convulsion. Like other antipsychotic drugs, INVEGA TRINZA(R) should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that potentially lower the seizure threshold. Conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in patients 65 years or older. 5.12 Dysphagia Esophageal dysmotility and aspiration have been associated with antipsychotic drug use. INVEGA TRINZA(R) and other antipsychotic drugs should be used cautiously in patients at risk for aspiration pneumonia. 5.13 Priapism Drugs with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have been reported to induce priapism. Although no cases of priapism have been reported in clinical trials with INVEGA TRINZA(R), priapism has been reported with oral paliperidone during postmarketing surveillance. Severe priapism may require surgical intervention. 5.14 Disruption of Body Temperature Regulation Disruption of the body's ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic agents. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing INVEGA TRINZA(R) to patients who will be experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
