https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Atezolizumab+AND+Injection&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "ATEZOLIZUMAB"
        "brand_name": [
          "TECENTRIQ"
 
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label: Immune-Related Pneumonitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Immune-Related Hepatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immune-Related Colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Immune-Related Endocrinopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Other Immune-Related Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Infusion-Related Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Most common adverse reactions (≥ 20% of patients) included: fatigue, decreased appetite, nausea, urinary tract infection, pyrexia, and constipation, (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Genentech at 1-888-835-2555 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described in Table 1 reflects exposure to TECENTRIQ in Cohort 2 of Study 1. This cohort enrolled 310 patients in a single arm trial with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma who had disease progression during or following at least one platinum-containing chemotherapy regimen or who had disease progression within 12 months of treatment with a platinum-containing neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy regimen [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. Patients received 1200 mg of TECENTRIQ intravenously every 3 weeks until unacceptable toxicity or either radiographic or clinical progression. The median duration of exposure was 12.3 weeks (range: 0.1, 46 weeks). The most common adverse reactions (≥ 20%) were fatigue (52%), decreased appetite (26%), nausea (25%), urinary tract infection (22%), pyrexia (21%), and constipation (21%). The most common Grade 3–4 adverse reactions (≥ 2%) were urinary tract infection, anemia, fatigue, dehydration, intestinal obstruction, urinary obstruction, hematuria, dyspnea, acute kidney injury, abdominal pain, venous thromboembolism, sepsis, and pneumonia. Three patients (0.9%) who were treated with TECENTRIQ experienced either sepsis, pneumonitis, or intestinal obstruction which led to death. TECENTRIQ was discontinued for adverse reactions in 3.2% (10/310) of the 310 patients. Sepsis led to discontinuation in 0.6% (2/310) of patients. Adverse reactions leading to interruption of TECENTRIQ occurred in 27% of patients; the most common (> 1%) were liver enzyme increase, urinary tract infection, diarrhea, fatigue, confusional state, urinary obstruction, pyrexia, dyspnea, venous thromboembolism, and pneumonitis. Serious adverse reactions occurred in 45% of patients. The most frequent serious adverse reactions (> 2%) were urinary tract infection, hematuria, acute kidney injury, intestinal obstruction, pyrexia, venous thromboembolism, urinary obstruction, pneumonia, dyspnea, abdominal pain, sepsis, and confusional state. Table 1 summarizes the adverse reactions that occurred in ≥ 10% of patients while Table 2 summarizes Grade 3–4 selected laboratory abnormalities that occurred in ≥ 1% of patients treated with TECENTRIQ in Cohort 2 of Study 1. Table 1: All Grade Adverse Reactions in ≥ 10% of Patients with Urothelial Carcinoma in Study 1 TECENTRIQ N = 310 Adverse Reaction All Grades (%) Grades 3 – 4 (%) All Adverse Reactions 96 50 Gastrointestinal Disorders Nausea 25 2 Constipation 21 0.3 Diarrhea 18 1 Abdominal pain 17 4 Vomiting 17 1 General Disorders and Administration Fatigue 52 6 Pyrexia 21 1 Peripheral edema 18 1 Infections and Infestations Urinary tract infection 22 9 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased appetite 26 1 Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Back/Neck pain 15 2 Arthralgia 14 1 Renal and urinary disorders Hematuria 14 3 Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea 16 4 Cough 14 0.3 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash 15 0.3 Pruritus 13 0.3 Table 2: Grade 3–4 Laboratory Abnormalities in Patients with Urothelial Carcinoma in Study 1 in ≥ 1% of Patients Laboratory Test Grades 3–4 (%) Lymphopenia 10 Hyponatremia 10 Anemia 8 Hyperglycemia 5 Increased Alkaline phosphatase 4 Increased Creatinine 3 Increased ALT 2 Increased AST 2 Hypoalbuminemia 1 6.2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. Among 275 patients in Study 1, 114 patients (41.5%) tested positive for treatment-emergent (treatment-induced or treatment-enhanced) anti-therapeutic antibodies (ATA) at one or more post-dose time points. In Study 1, the presence of ATAs did not appear to have a clinically significant impact on pharmacokinetics, safety or efficacy. Immunogenicity assay results are highly dependent on several factors, including assay sensitivity and specificity, assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of incidence of ATAs to TECENTRIQ with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Immune-Related Pneumonitis: Withhold for moderate and permanently discontinue for severe or life-threatening pneumonitis. (5.1) Immune-Related Hepatitis: Monitor for changes in liver function. Withhold for moderate and permanently discontinue for severe or life-threatening transaminase or total bilirubin elevation. (5.2) Immune-Related Colitis: Withhold for moderate or severe, and permanently discontinue for life-threatening colitis. (5.3) Immune-Related Endocrinopathies (5.4): Hypophysitis: Withhold for moderate or severe and permanently discontinue for life-threatening hypophysitis. Thyroid Disorders: Monitor for changes in thyroid function. Withhold for symptomatic thyroid disease. Adrenal Insufficiency: Withhold for symptomatic adrenal insufficiency. Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus: Withhold for ≥ Grade 3 hyperglycemia. Immune-Related Myasthenic Syndrome/Myasthenia Gravis, Guillain-Barré or Meningoencephalitis: Permanently discontinue for any grade. (5.5) Ocular Inflammatory Toxicity: Withhold for moderate and permanently discontinue for severe ocular inflammatory toxicity (5.5) Immune-Related Pancreatitis: Withhold for moderate or severe, and permanently discontinue for life-threatening pancreatitis, or any grade of recurring pancreatitis. (5.5) Infection: Withhold for severe or life-threatening infection. (5.6) Infusion Reaction: Interrupt or slow the rate of infusion for mild or moderate infusion reactions and discontinue for severe or life-threatening infusion reactions. (5.7) Embryo-Fetal Toxicity: TECENTRIQ can cause fetal harm. Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception. (5.8, 8.1, 8.3) 5.1 Immune-Related Pneumonitis Immune-mediated pneumonitis or interstitial lung disease, defined as requiring use of corticosteroids and with no clear alternate etiology, occurred in patients receiving TECENTRIQ. Across clinical trials, 2.6% (51/1978) of patients developed pneumonitis. Fatal pneumonitis occurred in two patients. In 523 patients with urothelial carcinoma who received TECENTRIQ, pneumonitis occurred in 6 (1.1%) patients. Of these patients, there was one patient with fatal pneumonitis, one patient with Grade 3, three patients with Grade 2, and one patient with Grade 1 pneumonitis. TECENTRIQ was held in all cases and five patients were treated with corticosteroids. Pneumonitis resolved in three patients. The median time to onset was 2.6 months (range: 15 days to 4.2 months). The median duration was 15 days (range: 6 days to 3.1+ months). Monitor patients for signs with radiographic imaging and symptoms of pneumonitis. Administer steroids at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents for Grade 2 or greater pneumonitis, followed by corticosteroid taper. Withhold TECENTRIQ until resolution for Grade 2 pneumonitis. Permanently discontinue TECENTRIQ for Grade 3 or 4 pneumonitis [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. 5.2 Immune-Related Hepatitis Immune-mediated hepatitis, defined as requiring use of corticosteroids and with no clear alternate etiology, occurred in patients receiving TECENTRIQ. Liver test abnormalities occurred in patients who received TECENTRIQ. Across clinical trials (n=1978), Grade 3 or 4 elevation occurred in ALT (2.5%), AST (2.3%), and total bilirubin (1.6%). In patients with urothelial carcinoma (n=523) Grade 3 or 4 elevation occurred in ALT (2.5%), AST (2.5%), and total bilirubin (2.1%). Immune-mediated hepatitis occurred in 1.3% of patients. Of these cases, one patient died from hepatitis, five patients had Grade 3, and one patient had Grade 2 hepatitis. The median time to onset was 1.1 months (range: 0.4 to 7.7 months). Of the seven patients with immune-mediated hepatitis, TECENTRIQ was temporarily interrupted in four patients; none of these patients developed recurrence of hepatitis after resuming TECENTRIQ. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hepatitis. Monitor AST, ALT, and bilirubin prior to and periodically during treatment with TECENTRIQ. Administer corticosteroids at a dose of 1-2 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents for Grade 2 or greater transaminase elevations, with or without concomitant elevation in total bilirubin, followed by corticosteroid taper. Withhold TECENTRIQ for Grade 2 and permanently discontinue TECENTRIQ for Grade 3 or 4 immune-mediated hepatitis [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.3 Immune-Related Colitis Immune-mediated colitis or diarrhea, defined as requiring use of corticosteroids and with no clear alternate etiology, occurred in patients receiving TECENTRIQ. Across clinical trials, colitis or diarrhea occurred in 19.7% (389/1978) of all patients and in 18.7% (98/523) of patients with urothelial carcinoma. Ten patients (1.9%) developed Grade 3 or 4 diarrhea. Four patients (0.8%) had immune-mediated colitis or diarrhea with a median time to onset of 1.7 months (range: 1.1 to 3.1 months). Immune-mediated colitis resolved with corticosteroid administration in three of these patients, while the other patient died without resolution of colitis in the setting of diarrhea-associated renal failure. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of diarrhea or colitis. Withhold treatment with TECENTRIQ for Grade 2 diarrhea or colitis. If symptoms persist for longer than 5 days or recur, administer 1–2 mg/kg prednisone or equivalent per day. Withhold treatment with TECENTRIQ for Grade 3 diarrhea or colitis. Treat with IV methylprednisolone 1–2 mg/kg per day and convert to oral steroids once the patient has improved. For both Grade 2 and Grade 3 diarrhea or colitis, when symptoms improve to Grade 0 or Grade 1, taper steroids over ≥ 1 month. Resume treatment with TECENTRIQ if the event improves to Grade 0 or 1 within 12 weeks and corticosteroids have been reduced to the equivalent of ≤ 10 mg oral prednisone per day. Permanently discontinue TECENTRIQ for Grade 4 diarrhea or colitis [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.4 Immune-Related Endocrinopathies Immune-related thyroid disorders, adrenal insufficiency, hypophysitis, and type 1 diabetes mellitus, including diabetic ketoacidosis, have occurred in patients receiving TECENTRIQ. Monitor patients for clinical signs and symptoms of endocrinopathies. Hypophysitis Hypophysitis occurred in 0.2% (1/523) of patients with urothelial cancer receiving TECENTRIQ. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypophysitis. Administer corticosteroids and hormone replacement as clinically indicated. Withhold TECENTRIQ for Grade 2 or Grade 3 and permanently discontinue for Grade 4 hypophysitis [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Thyroid Disorders Thyroid function was assessed routinely only at baseline and the end of the study. Across clinical trials, hypothyroidism occurred in 3.9% (77/1978) of patients and in 2.5% (13/523) of patients with urothelial carcinoma. One patient had Grade 3 and twelve patients had Grade 1–2 hypothyroidism. The median time to first onset was 5.4 months (range: 21 days to 11.3 months). Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) was elevated and above the patient's baseline in 16% (21/131) of patients with a follow-up measurement. Hyperthyroidism occurred in 1.0% (20/1978) of patients across clinical trials and in 0.6% (3/523) of patients with urothelial carcinoma. Of the three urothelial carcinoma patients, one patient had Grade 2 and two patients had Grade 1 hyperthyroidism. The median time to onset was 3.2 months (range: 1.4 to 5.8 months). TSH was decreased and below the patient's baseline in 3.8% (5/131) of patients with a follow-up measurement. Monitor thyroid function prior to and periodically during treatment with TECENTRIQ. Asymptomatic patients with abnormal thyroid function tests can receive TECENTRIQ. For symptomatic hypothyroidism, withhold TECENTRIQ and initiate thyroid hormone replacement as needed. Manage isolated hypothyroidism with replacement therapy and without corticosteroids. For symptomatic hyperthyroidism, withhold TECENTRIQ and initiate an anti-thyroid drug as needed. Resume treatment with TECENTRIQ when symptoms of hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism are controlled and thyroid function is improving [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Adrenal Insufficiency Adrenal insufficiency occurred in 0.4% (7/1978) of patients across clinical trials, including two patients with Grade 3, four patients with Grade 2, and one patient with Grade 1. Adrenal insufficiency resolved in two patients. For symptomatic adrenal insufficiency, withhold TECENTRIQ and administer methylprednisolone 1–2 mg/kg per day IV followed by oral prednisone 1–2 mg/kg per day or equivalent once symptoms improve. Start steroid taper when symptoms improve to ≤ Grade 1 and taper steroids over ≥ 1 month. Resume treatment with TECENTRIQ if the event improves to ≤ Grade 1 within 12 weeks and corticosteroids have been reduced to the equivalent of ≤ 10 mg oral prednisone per day and the patient is stable on replacement therapy, if required [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Diabetes Mellitus New onset diabetes with ketoacidosis has occurred in patients receiving TECENTRIQ. Diabetes mellitus without an alternative etiology occurred in one (0.2%) patient with urothelial carcinoma. Initiate treatment with insulin for type 1 diabetes mellitus. For ≥ Grade 3 hyperglycemia (fasting glucose >250–500 mg/dL), withhold TECENTRIQ. Resume treatment with TECENTRIQ when metabolic control is achieved on insulin replacement therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.5 Other Immune-Related Adverse Reactions Other immune-related adverse reactions including meningoencephalitis, myasthenic syndrome/myasthenia gravis, Guillain-Barré, ocular inflammatory toxicity, and pancreatitis, including increases in serum amylase and lipase levels, have occurred in ≤ 1.0% of patients treated with TECENTRIQ. Meningitis / Encephalitis Monitor patients for clinical signs and symptoms of meningitis or encephalitis. Permanently discontinue TECENTRIQ for any grade of meningitis or encephalitis. Treat with IV steroids (1–2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone or equivalent) and convert to oral steroids (prednisone 60 mg/day or equivalent) once the patient has improved. When symptoms improve to ≤ Grade 1, taper steroids over ≥ 1 month [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Motor and Sensory Neuropathy Monitor patients for symptoms of motor and sensory neuropathy. Permanently discontinue TECENTRIQ for any grade of myasthenic syndrome/myasthenia gravis or Guillain-Barré syndrome. Institute medical intervention as appropriate. Consider initiation of systemic corticosteroids at a dose of 1–2 mg/kg/day prednisone [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Pancreatitis Symptomatic pancreatitis without an alternative etiology occurred in 0.1% (2/1978) of patients across clinical trials. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of acute pancreatitis. Withhold TECENTRIQ for ≥ Grade 3 serum amylase or lipase levels (> 2.0 ULN), or Grade 2 or 3 pancreatitis. Treat with 1–2 mg/kg IV methylprednisolone or equivalent per day. Once symptoms improve, follow with 1–2 mg/kg of oral prednisone or equivalent per day. Resume treatment with TECENTRIQ if serum amylase and lipase levels improve to ≤ Grade 1 within 12 weeks, symptoms of pancreatitis have resolved, and corticosteroids have been reduced to ≤ 10 mg oral prednisone or equivalent per day. Permanently discontinue TECENTRIQ for Grade 4 or any grade of recurrent pancreatitis [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.6 Infection Severe infections, including sepsis, herpes encephalitis, and mycobacterial infection leading to retroperitoneal hemorrhage occurred in patients receiving TECENTRIQ. Across clinical trials, infections occurred in 38.4% (759/1978) of patients. In 523 patients with urothelial carcinoma who received TECENTRIQ, infection occurred in 197 (37.7%) patients. Grade 3 or 4 infection occurred in 60 (11.5%) patients, while three patients died due to infections. Urinary tract infections were the most common cause of Grade 3 or higher infection, occurring in 37 (7.1%) patients. In a randomized trial in patients with non-small cell lung cancer, infections were more common in patients treated with TECENTRIQ (42%) compared with those treated with docetaxel (33%). Grade 3 or 4 infections occurred in 9.2% of patients treated with TECENTRIQ compared with 2.2% in patients treated with docetaxel. One patient (0.7%) treated with TECENTRIQ died due to infection, compared to two patients (1.5%) treated with docetaxel. Pneumonia was the most common cause of Grade 3 or higher infection, occurring in 6.3% of patients treated with TECENTRIQ. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of infection and treat with antibiotics for suspected or confirmed bacterial infections. Withhold TECENTRIQ for ≥ Grade 3 infection [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.7 Infusion-Related Reactions Severe infusion reactions have occurred in patients in clinical trials of TECENTRIQ. Infusion-related reactions occurred in 1.3% (25/1978) of patients across clinical trials and in 1.7% (9/523) of patients with urothelial carcinoma. Interrupt or slow the rate of infusion in patients with mild or moderate infusion reactions. Permanently discontinue TECENTRIQ in patients with Grade 3 or 4 infusion reactions [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.8 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Based on its mechanism of action, TECENTRIQ can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Animal studies have demonstrated that inhibition of the PD-L1/PD-1 pathway can lead to increased risk of immune-related rejection of the developing fetus resulting in fetal death. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, advise the patient of the potential risk to a fetus. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with TECENTRIQ and for at least 5 months after the last dose [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
