https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Cobicistat+AND+Tablets&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 8
        "generic_name": [
          "ELVITEGRAVIR, COBICISTAT, EMTRICITABINE, AND TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Stribild"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See also Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3). STRIBILD is a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection; therefore, STRIBILD should not be administered with other antiretroviral medications for treatment of HIV-1 infection. (5.4, 7.1) STRIBILD can alter the concentration of drugs metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6. Drugs that induce CYP3A can alter the concentrations of one or more components of STRIBILD. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug-drug interactions. (4, 7.2, 7.3, 12.3) 7.1 Other Antiretroviral Medications STRIBILD is a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection; therefore, STRIBILD should not be administered with other antiretroviral medications for treatment of HIV-1 infection. Complete information regarding potential drug-drug interactions with other antiretroviral medications is not provided. 7.2 Potential for STRIBILD to Affect Other Drugs Cobicistat, a component of STRIBILD, is an inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6 and an inhibitor of the following transporters: p-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Thus, coadministration of STRIBILD with drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6, or are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 or OATP1B3 may result in increased plasma concentrations of such drugs. Elvitegravir is a modest inducer of CYP2C9 and may decrease the plasma concentrations of CYP2C9 substrates. 7.3 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect One or More Components of STRIBILD Elvitegravir and cobicistat, components of STRIBILD, are metabolized by CYP3A. Cobicistat is also metabolized, to a minor extent, by CYP2D6. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity are expected to increase the clearance of elvitegravir and cobicistat, resulting in decreased plasma concentration of cobicistat and elvitegravir, which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect of STRIBILD and development of resistance (see Table 6). Coadministration of STRIBILD with other drugs that inhibit CYP3A may decrease the clearance and increase the plasma concentration of cobicistat (see Table 6). 7.4 Drugs Affecting Renal Function Because emtricitabine and tenofovir, components of STRIBILD are primarily excreted by the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion, coadministration of STRIBILD with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of emtricitabine, tenofovir, and other renally eliminated drugs and this may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Some examples of drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion include, but are not limited to acyclovir, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g. gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. 7.5 Established and Other Potentially Significant Interactions Table 6 provides a listing of established or potentially clinically significant drug interactions. The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with either STRIBILD, the components of STRIBILD, (elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, and tenofovir DF) as individual agents and/or in combination, or are predicted drug interactions that may occur with STRIBILD [for magnitude of interaction, see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The table includes potentially significant interactions but is not all inclusive. Table 6 Established and Other Potentially SignificantThis table is not all inclusive. Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration ↑ = Increase, ↓ = Decrease, ⇔ = No Effect Clinical Comment Acid Reducing Agents: AntacidsIndicates that a drug-drug interaction trial was conducted. (for example aluminum and magnesium hydroxide) ↓ elvitegravir Elvitegravir plasma concentrations are lower when STRIBILD is administered simultaneously with antacids. It is recommended to separate STRIBILD and antacid administration by at least 2 hours. Antiarrhythmics: e.g. amiodarone bepridil digoxin disopyramide flecainide systemic lidocaine mexiletine propafenone quinidine ↑ antiarrhythmics ↑ digoxin Concentrations of these antiarrhythmic drugs may be increased when coadministered with STRIBILD. Caution is warranted and therapeutic concentration monitoring, if available, is recommended for antiarrhythmics when coadministered with STRIBILD. Antibacterials: clarithromycin telithromycin ↑ clarithromycin ↑ telithromycin ↑ cobicistat Concentrations of clarithromycin and/or cobicistat may be altered when clarithromycin is coadministered with STRIBILD. Patients with CLcr greater than or equal to 60 mL/min: No dose adjustment of clarithromycin is required. Patients with CLcr between 50 mL/min and 60 mL/min: The dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 50%. Concentrations of telithromycin and/or cobicistat may be increased when telithromycin is coadministered with STRIBILD. Anticoagulants: warfarin Effect on warfarin unknown Concentrations of warfarin may be affected upon coadministration with STRIBILD. It is recommended that the international normalized ratio (INR) be monitored upon coadministration with STRIBILD. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine oxcarbazepine phenobarbital phenytoin ↑ carbamazepine ↓ elvitegravir ↓ cobicistat Coadministration of carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, or phenytoin with STRIBILD may significantly decrease cobicistat and elvitegravir plasma concentrations, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Alternative anticonvulsants should be considered. clonazepam ethosuximide ↑ clonazepam ↑ ethosuximide Concentrations of clonazepam and ethosuximide may be increased when coadministered with STRIBILD. Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration with STRIBILD. Antidepressants: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) e.g. paroxetine Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) e.g. amitriptyline desipramine imipramine nortriptyline buproprion trazodone ↑ SSRIs ↑ TCAs ↑ trazodone Concentrations of these antidepressant agents may be increased when coadministered with STRIBILD. Careful dose titration of the antidepressant and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended. Antifungals: itraconazole ketoconazole voriconazole ↑ elvitegravir ↑ cobicistat ↑ itraconazole ↑ ketoconazole ↑voriconazole Concentrations of ketoconazole, itraconazole and voriconazole may increase upon coadministration with STRIBILD. When administering with STRIBILD, the maximum daily dose of ketoconazole or itraconazole should not exceed 200 mg per day. An assessment of benefit/risk ratio is recommended to justify use of voriconazole with STRIBILD. Anti-gout: colchicine ↑ colchicine STRIBILD is not recommended to be coadministered with colchicine to patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Treatment of gout-flares – coadministration of colchicine in patients receiving STRIBILD: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) × 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course to be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout-flares – coadministration of colchicine in patients receiving STRIBILD: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever – coadministration of colchicine in patients receiving STRIBILD: Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Antimycobacterial: rifabutin rifapentine ↓ elvitegravir ↓ cobicistat Coadministration of rifabutin and rifapentine with STRIBILD may significantly decrease elvitegravir and cobicistat plasma concentrations, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Coadministration of STRIBILD with rifabutin or rifapentine is not recommended. Beta-Blockers: e.g. metoprolol timolol ↑ beta-blockers Concentrations of beta-blockers may be increased when coadministered with STRIBILD. Clinical monitoring is recommended and a dose decrease of the beta blocker may be necessary when these agents are coadministered with STRIBILD. Calcium Channel Blockers: e.g. amlodipine diltiazem felodipine nicardipine nifedipine verapamil ↑ calcium channel blockers Concentrations of calcium channel blockers may be increased when coadministered with STRIBILD. Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration with STRIBILD. Corticosteroid: Systemic: dexamethasone ↓ elvitegravir ↓ cobicistat Systemic dexamethasone, a CYP3A inducer, may significantly decrease elvitegravir and cobicistat plasma concentrations, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Corticosteroid: Inhaled/Nasal: fluticasone ↑ fluticasone Concomitant use of inhaled or nasal fluticasone and STRIBILD may increase plasma concentrations of fluticasone, resulting in reduced serum cortisol concentrations. Alternative corticosteroids should be considered, particularly for long term use. Endothelin Receptor Antagonists: bosentan ↑ bosentan Coadministration of bosentan in patients on STRIBILD: In patients who have been receiving STRIBILD for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Coadministration of STRIBILD in patients on bosentan: Discontinue use of bosentan at least 36 hours prior to initiation of STRIBILD. After at least 10 days following the initiation of STRIBILD, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: atorvastatin ↑ atorvastatin Initiate with the lowest starting dose of atorvastatin and titrate carefully while monitoring for safety. Hormonal Contraceptives: norgestimate/ethinyl estradiol ↑ norgestimate ↓ ethinyl estradiol The effects of increases in the concentration of the progestational component norgestimate are not fully known and can include increased risk of insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, acne, and venous thrombosis. The potential risks and benefits associated with coadministration of norgestimate/ethinyl estradiol with STRIBILD should be considered, particularly in women who have risk factors for these events. Coadministration of STRIBILD with other hormonal contraceptives (e.g., contraceptive patch, contraceptive vaginal ring, or injectable contraceptives) or oral contraceptives containing progestogens other than norgestimate has not been studied; therefore, alternative (non-hormonal) methods of contraception can be considered. Immuno-suppressants: e.g. cyclosporine sirolimus tacrolimus ↑ immuno-suppressants Concentrations of these immunosuppressant agents may be increased when coadministered with STRIBILD. Therapeutic monitoring of the immunosuppressive agents is recommended upon coadministration with STRIBILD. Narcotic Analgesics: buprenorphine/ naloxone ↑ buprenorphine ↑ norbuprenorphine ↓ naloxone Concentrations of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine are increased when coadministered with STRIBILD. No dose adjustment of buprenorphine/naloxone is required upon coadministration with STRIBILD. Patients should be closely monitored for sedation and cognitive effects. Inhaled Beta Agonist: salmeterol ↑ salmeterol Coadministration of salmeterol and STRIBILD is not recommended. Coadministration of salmeterol with STRIBILD may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Neuroleptics: e.g. perphenazine risperidone thioridazine ↑ neuroleptics A decrease in dose of the neuroleptic may be needed when coadministered with STRIBILD. Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) Inhibitors: sildenafil tadalafil vardenafil ↑ PDE5 inhibitors Coadministration with STRIBILD may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor associated adverse reactions, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Use of sildenafil is contraindicated when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). The following dose adjustments are recommended for the use of tadalafil with STRIBILD: Coadministration of tadalafil in patients on STRIBILD: In patients receiving STRIBILD for at least 1 week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase tadalafil dose to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Coadministration of STRIBILD in patients on tadalafil: Avoid use of tadalafil during the initiation of STRIBILD. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting STRIBILD. After at least one week following initiation of STRIBILD, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase tadalafil dose to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: Sildenafil at a single dose not exceeding 25 mg in 48 hours, vardenafil at a single dose not exceeding 2.5 mg in 72 hours, or tadalafil at a single dose not exceeding 10 mg in 72 hours can be used with increased monitoring for PDE-5 inhibitor associated with adverse events. Sedative/hypnotics: Benzodiazepines: e.g. Parenterally administered midazolam clorazepate diazepam estazolam flurazepam buspirone zolpidem ↑ sedatives/hypnotics Concomitant use of parenteral midazolam with STRIBILD may increase plasma concentrations of midazolam. Coadministration should be done in a setting that ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Coadministration of oral midazolam with STRIBILD is contraindicated. With other sedative/hypnotics, dose reduction may be necessary and clinical monitoring is recommended. 7.6 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with STRIBILD Based on drug interaction studies conducted with the components of STRIBILD, no clinically significant drug interactions have been either observed or are expected when STRIBILD is combined with the following drugs: entecavir, famciclovir, H2 receptor antagonists, methadone, proton pump inhibitors and ribavirin."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse drug reactions are discussed in other sections of the labeling: Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Severe Acute Exacerbations of Hepatitis B [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Bone Effects of Tenofovir DF [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Immune Reconstitution Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Most common adverse drug reactions to STRIBILD (incidence greater than or equal to 10%, all grades) are nausea and diarrhea. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gilead Sciences, Inc. at 1-800-GILEAD-5 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety assessment of STRIBILD is based on the Week 96 pooled data from 1408 subjects in two randomized, double-blind, active-controlled clinical trials, Study 102 and Study 103, in antiretroviral treatment-naïve HIV-1 infected adult subjects [see Clinical Studies (14)]. A total of 701 subjects received STRIBILD once daily for at least 96 weeks. The proportion of subjects who discontinued treatment with STRIBILD (elvitegravir 150 mg/cobicistat 150 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir DF 300 mg); ATRIPLA (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir DF 300 mg); or atazanavir (ATV) + ritonavir (RTV) + TRUVADA (emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir DF 300 mg) due to adverse events, regardless of severity, was 4.6%, 6.8% and 5.9%, respectively. Table 2 displays the frequency of adverse drug reactions greater than or equal to 5% of subjects in any treatment arm. Table 2 Adverse Drug ReactionsFrequencies of adverse reactions are based on all treatment-emergent adverse events, attributed to study drugs. (all grades) Reported in ≥ 5% of Subjects in Any Treatment Arm in Studies 102 and 103 (Week 96 analysis). STRIBILD N=701 ATRIPLA N=352 ATV + RTV + TRUVADA N=355 EYE DISORDERS Ocular icterus <1% 0% 13% GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Diarrhea 12% 11% 17% Flatulence 2% <1% 8% Nausea 16% 9% 14% GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS Fatigue 4% 8% 6% HEPATOBILIARY DISORDERS Jaundice 0% <1% 9% NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Somnolence 1% 7% 1% Headache 7% 4% 6% Dizziness 3% 21% 4% PSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS Insomnia 3% 8% 1% Abnormal dreams 9% 26% 4% SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE DISORDERS RashRash event includes dermatitis, drug eruption, eczema, pruritus, pruritus generalized, rash, rash erythematous, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculo-papular, rash morbilliform, rash papular, rash pruritic, and urticaria. 3% 15% 6% See Warnings and Precautions (5.3) , for a discussion of renal adverse reactions from clinical trials experience with STRIBILD. Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials of the Components of STRIBILD Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: In addition to the adverse reactions observed with STRIBILD, the following adverse reactions occurred in at least 5% of treatment-experienced or treatment-naïve subjects receiving emtricitabine or tenofovir DF with other antiretroviral agents in other clinical trials: depression, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, vomiting, fever, pain, nasopharyngitis, pneumonia, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection, arthralgia, back pain, myalgia, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy (including peripheral neuritis and neuropathy), anxiety, increased cough, and rhinitis. Skin discoloration has been reported with higher frequency among emtricitabine-treated subjects; it was manifested by hyperpigmentation on the palms and/or soles and was generally mild and asymptomatic. The mechanism and clinical significance are unknown. Laboratory Abnormalities The frequency of laboratory abnormalities (Grades 3–4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects receiving STRIBILD in Studies 102 and 103 are presented in Table 3. Table 3 Laboratory Abnormalities (Grades 3–4) Reported in ≥ 2% of Subjects Receiving STRIBILD in Studies 102 and 103 (Week 96 analysis) STRIBILD ATRIPLA ATV + RTV + TRUVADA Laboratory Parameter Abnormality Frequencies are based on treatment-emergent laboratory abnormalities. , For subjects with serum amylase > 1.5 × upper limit of normal, lipase test was also performed. The frequency of increased lipase (Grades 3–4) occurring in STRIBILD (N=61), ATRIPLA (N=36), and ATV +RTV + TRUVADA (N=36) was 15%, 17%, and 25%, respectively. N=701 N=352 N=355 AST (>5.0 × ULN) 2% 6% 6% Amylase (>2.0 × ULN) 3% 2% 4% Creatine Kinase (≥ 10.0 × ULN) 7% 14% 10% Urine RBC (Hematuria) (> 75 RBC/HPF) 3% 2% 4% In Study 103, BMD was assessed by DEXA in a non-random subset of 120 subjects. Mean percentage decreases in BMD from baseline to Week 96 in the STRIBILD group (N = 47) were comparable to the ATV + RTV + TRUVADA group (N = 53) at the lumbar spine (-2.0% versus -3.5%, respectively) and at the hip (-3.2% versus -4.2%, respectively). In Studies 102 and 103, bone fractures occurred in 14 subjects (2.0%) in the STRIBILD group, 8 subjects (2.3%) in the ATRIPLA group, and 14 subjects (3.9%) in the ATV + RTV + TRUVADA group. These findings were consistent with data from an earlier 144-week trial of treatment-naïve subjects receiving tenofovir DF + lamivudine + efavirenz. Proteinuria (all grades) occurred in 46% of subjects receiving STRIBILD, 38% of subjects receiving ATRIPLA, and 37% of subjects receiving ATV + RTV + TRUVADA. The cobicistat component of STRIBILD has been shown to increase serum creatinine and decrease estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting renal glomerular function. In Studies 102 and 103, increases in serum creatinine and decreases in estimated creatinine clearance occurred early in treatment with STRIBILD, after which they stabilized. Table 4 displays the mean changes in serum creatinine and eGFR levels at Week 96 and the percentage of subjects with elevations in serum creatinine (All Grades). Table 4 Change from Baseline in Serum Creatinine and eGFR and Incidence of Elevated Serum Creatinine (All Grades) at Week 96 STRIBILD (N=701) ATRIPLA (N=352) ATV + RTV + TRUVADA (N=355) Serum Creatinine (mg/dL)Mean change ±SD 0.13 (±0.13) 0.01 (±0.13) 0.08 (±0.14) eGFR by Cockcroft-Gault (mL/min) -13.2 (±15.7) -0.9 (±16.1) -8.6 (±17.8) Subjects with Elevations in Serum Creatinine (All Grades)(%) 10 1 5 Emtricitabine or Tenofovir DF: In addition to the laboratory abnormalities observed with STRIBILD, the following laboratory abnormalities have been previously reported in subjects treated with emtricitabine or tenofovir DF with other antiretroviral agents in other clinical trials: Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormalities of ALT (M: greater than 215 U per L; F: greater than 170 U per L), alkaline phosphatase (greater than 550 U per L), bilirubin (greater than 2.5 × ULN), serum glucose (less than 40 or greater than 250 mg per dL), glycosuria (greater than or equal to 3+), neutrophils (less than 750 per mm3), fasting cholesterol (greater than 240 mg per dL), and fasting triglycerides (greater than 750 mg per dL). Serum Lipids: In the clinical trials of STRIBILD, a similar percentage of subjects receiving STRIBILD, ATRIPLA, and ATV + RTV + TRUVADA were on lipid lowering agents at baseline (11%, 11%, and 12%, respectively). While receiving study drug through Week 96, an additional 8% of STRIBILD subjects were started on lipid lowering agents, compared to 9% of ATRIPLA and 8% of ATV + RTV + TRUVADA subjects. Changes from baseline in total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides are presented in Table 5. Table 5 Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Reported in Subjects Receiving STRIBILD or Comparator in Studies 102 and 103 STRIBILD N=701 ATRIPLA N=352 ATV + RTV + TRUVADA N=355 Baseline Week 96 Baseline Week 96 Baseline Week 96 mg/dL ChangeThe change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 96 values. mg/dL Change mg/dL Change Total Cholesterol (fasted) 166 [N=675] +12 [N=571] 161 [N=343] +20 [N=288] 168 [N=337] +11 [N=279] HDL-cholesterol (fasted) 43 [N=675] +7 [N=571] 43 [N=343] +9 [N=288] 42 [N=335] +6 [N=278] LDL-cholesterol (fasted) 100 [N=675] +12 [N=572] 97 [N=343] +17 [N=287] 101 [N=337] +13 [N=280] Triglycerides (fasted) 122 [N=675] +8 [N=571] 121 [N=343] +17 [N=288] 132 [N=337] +25 [N=279] 6.2 Postmarketing Experience Because postmarketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of tenofovir DF. No additional postmarketing adverse reactions specific for emtricitabine have been identified. Immune System Disorders allergic reaction, including angioedema Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders lactic acidosis, hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders pancreatitis, increased amylase, abdominal pain Hepatobiliary Disorders hepatic steatosis, hepatitis, increased liver enzymes (most commonly AST, ALT gamma GT) Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders rash Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and which may contribute to fractures), muscular weakness, myopathy Renal and Urinary Disorders acute renal failure, renal failure, acute tubular necrosis, Fanconi syndrome, proximal renal tubulopathy, interstitial nephritis (including acute cases), nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, renal insufficiency, increased creatinine, proteinuria, polyuria General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions asthenia The following adverse reactions, listed under the body system headings above, may occur as a consequence of proximal renal tubulopathy: rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia, hypokalemia, muscular weakness, myopathy, hypophosphatemia."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "New onset or worsening renal impairment: Can include acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome. Assess creatinine clearance (CLcr), urine glucose and urine protein before initiating treatment with STRIBILD. Monitor CLcr, urine glucose, and urine protein in all patients. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients at risk for renal impairment. Avoid administering STRIBILD with concurrent or recent use of nephrotoxic drugs. (5.3) Avoid coadministration with other anti-retroviral products: Do not use with drugs containing emtricitabine or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate including ATRIPLA, COMPLERA, EMTRIVA, TRUVADA, or VIREAD; with drugs containing lamivudine; or with drugs or regimens containing ritonavir. Do not administer in combination with HEPSERA. (5.4) Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD): Consider monitoring BMD in patients with a history of pathologic fracture or other risk factors of osteoporosis or bone loss. (5.5) Redistribution/accumulation of body fat: Observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. (5.6) Immune reconstitution syndrome: May necessitate further evaluation and treatment. (5.7) 5.1 Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs, including tenofovir DF, a component of STRIBILD, in combination with other antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women. Obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for liver disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Treatment with STRIBILD should be suspended in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). 5.2 Patients Coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV It is recommended that all patients with HIV-1 be tested for the presence of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) before initiating antiretroviral therapy. STRIBILD is not approved for the treatment of chronic HBV infection and the safety and efficacy of STRIBILD have not been established in patients coinfected with HBV and HIV-1. Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are coinfected with HBV and HIV-1 and have discontinued emtricitabine or tenofovir DF, two of the components of STRIBILD. In some patients infected with HBV and treated with EMTRIVA, the exacerbations of hepatitis B were associated with liver decompensation and liver failure. Patients who are coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV should be closely monitored with both clinical and laboratory follow-up for at least several months after stopping treatment with STRIBILD. If appropriate, initiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted. 5.3 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome (renal tubular injury with severe hypophosphatemia), has been reported with the use of tenofovir DF, a component of STRIBILD, and with the use of STRIBILD [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. In the clinical trials of STRIBILD over 96 weeks, 10 (1.4%) subjects in the STRIBILD group (N=701) and 2 (0.3%) subjects in the combined comparator groups (N = 707) discontinued study drug due to a renal adverse reaction. Of these discontinuations, 8 in the STRIBILD group and 1 in the combined comparator groups occurred during the first 48 week. Four (0.6%) of the subjects who received STRIBILD developed laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubular dysfunction leading to discontinuation of STRIBILD compared to none in the comparator groups. Two of these four subjects had renal impairment (i.e. estimated creatinine clearance less than 70 mL per minute) at baseline. The laboratory findings in these 4 subjects with evidence of proximal tubulopathy improved but did not completely resolve in all subjects upon discontinuation of STRIBILD. Renal replacement therapy was not required for these subjects. Estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose and urine protein should be documented in all patients prior to initiating therapy. Initiation of STRIBILD in patients with estimated creatinine clearance below 70 mL per minute is not recommended. STRIBILD should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent (e.g., high-dose or multiple non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)) [see Drug Interactions (7.4)]. Cases of acute renal failure after initiation of high dose or multiple NSAIDs have been reported in HIV-infected patients with risk factors for renal dysfunction who appeared stable on tenofovir DF. Some patients required hospitalization and renal replacement therapy. Alternatives to NSAIDs should be considered, if needed, in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. Persistent or worsening bone pain, pain in extremities, fractures and/or muscular pain or weakness may be manifestations of proximal renal tubulopathy and should prompt an evaluation of renal function in at-risk patients. Routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein should be performed during STRIBILD therapy in all patients. Additionally, serum phosphorus should be measured in patients at risk for renal impairment. Although cobicistat (a component of STRIBILD) may cause modest increases in serum creatinine and modest declines in estimated creatinine clearance without affecting renal glomerular function [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)], patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg per dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety. The emtricitabine and tenofovir DF components of STRIBILD are primarily excreted by the kidney. STRIBILD should be discontinued if estimated creatinine clearance declines below 50 mL per minute as dose interval adjustment required for emtricitabine and tenofovir DF cannot be achieved with the fixed-dose combination tablet. 5.4 Avoid Use with Other Antiretroviral Products STRIBILD is indicated for use as a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection and coadministration with other antiretroviral products is not recommended. STRIBILD is not recommended for coadministration with the following: emtricitabine or tenofovir DF (ATRIPLA, COMPLERA, EMTRIVA, TRUVADA, VIREAD); products containing lamivudine (COMBIVIR, EPIVIR, EPIVIR-HBV, EPZICOM, TRIZIVIR) or adefovir dipivoxil (HEPSERA); ritonavir (NORVIR, KALETRA). 5.5 Bone Effects of Tenofovir DF Bone Mineral Density: In clinical trials in HIV-1 infected adults, tenofovir DF (a component of STRIBILD) was associated with slightly greater decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) and increases in biochemical markers of bone metabolism, suggesting increased bone turnover relative to comparators. Serum parathyroid hormone levels and 1.25 Vitamin D levels were also higher in subjects receiving tenofovir DF. For additional information, see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and consult the VIREAD prescribing information. The effects of tenofovir DF-associated changes in BMD and biochemical markers on long-term bone health and future fracture risk are unknown. Assessment of BMD should be considered for HIV-1 infected patients who have a history of pathologic bone fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss. Although the effect of supplementation with calcium and vitamin D was not studied, such supplementation may be beneficial in all patients. If bone abnormalities are suspected, then appropriate consultation should be obtained. Mineralization Defects: Cases of osteomalacia associated with proximal renal tubulopathy, manifested as bone pain or pain in extremities and which may contribute to fractures, have been reported in association with the use of tenofovir DF [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Arthralgias and muscle pain or weakness have also been reported in cases of proximal renal tubulopathy. Hypophosphatemia and osteomalacia secondary to proximal renal tubulopathy should be considered in patients at risk of renal dysfunction who present with persistent or worsening bone or muscle symptoms while receiving products containing tenofovir DF [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. 5.6 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and \"cushingoid appearance\" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.7 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including STRIBILD. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections [such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis], which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution, however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Cobicistat+AND+Tablets&limit=1&skip=1
Page 1 of 8
        "generic_name": [
          "ELVITEGRAVIR, COBICISTAT, EMTRICITABINE, AND TENOFOVIR ALAFENAMIDE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Genvoya"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS GENVOYA should not be administered with other antiretroviral medications for treatment of HIV-1 infection. (5.3, 7.1) GENVOYA can alter the concentration of drugs metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6. Drugs that induce CYP3A can alter the concentrations of one or more components of GENVOYA. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug-drug interactions. (4, 7.2, 7.3, 12.3) 7.1 Other Antiretroviral Medications GENVOYA is a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection; therefore, coadministration of GENVOYA with other antiretroviral medications for treatment of HIV-1 infection should be avoided. Complete information regarding potential drug-drug interactions with other antiretroviral medications is not provided [see Contraindications, Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Potential for GENVOYA to Affect Other Drugs Cobicistat, a component of GENVOYA, is an inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6 and an inhibitor of the following transporters: p-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Thus, coadministration of GENVOYA with drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6, or are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 or OATP1B3 may result in increased plasma concentrations of such drugs (see Table 5). Elvitegravir is a modest inducer of CYP2C9 and may decrease the plasma concentrations of CYP2C9 substrates. TAF is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or UGT1A1. TAF is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A in vitro. 7.3 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect One or More Components of GENVOYA Elvitegravir and cobicistat, components of GENVOYA, are metabolized by CYP3A. Cobicistat is also metabolized, to a minor extent, by CYP2D6. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity are expected to increase the clearance of elvitegravir and cobicistat, resulting in decreased plasma concentration of cobicistat, elvitegravir, and TAF, which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect of GENVOYA and development of resistance (see Table 5). Coadministration of GENVOYA with other drugs that inhibit CYP3A may decrease the clearance and increase the plasma concentration of cobicistat (see Table 5). TAF, a component of GENVOYA, is a substrate of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Drugs that inhibit P-gp and/or BCRP, such as cobicistat, may increase the absorption of TAF (see Table 10). However, when TAF is administered as a component of GENVOYA, its availability is increased by cobicistat and a further increase of TAF concentrations is not expected upon coadministration of an additional P-gp and/or BCRP inhibitor. Drugs that induce P-gp activity are expected to decrease the absorption of TAF, resulting in decreased plasma concentration of TAF. 7.4 Drugs Affecting Renal Function Because emtricitabine and tenofovir are primarily excreted by the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion, coadministration of GENVOYA with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of emtricitabine, tenofovir, and other renally eliminated drugs and this may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Some examples of drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g., gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 7.5 Established and Other Potentially Significant Interactions Table 5 provides a listing of established or potentially clinically significant drug interactions. The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with either GENVOYA, the components of GENVOYA (elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, and tenofovir alafenamide) as individual agents and/or in combination, or are predicted drug interactions that may occur with GENVOYA [for magnitude of interaction, see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. The table includes potentially significant interactions but is not all inclusive. Table 5 Established and Other Potentially SignificantThis table is not all inclusive. Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration↑ = Increase, ↓ = Decrease, ↔ = No Effect Clinical Comment Acid Reducing Agents: antacidsIndicates that a drug-drug interaction trial was conducted. e.g., aluminum and magnesium hydroxide ↓ elvitegravir Separate GENVOYA and antacid administration by at least 2 hours. Antiarrhythmics: e.g., amiodarone bepridil digoxin disopyramide flecainide systemic lidocaine mexiletine propafenone quinidine ↑ antiarrhythmics ↑ digoxin Caution is warranted and therapeutic concentration monitoring, if available, is recommended for antiarrhythmics when coadministered with GENVOYA. Antibacterials: clarithromycin telithromycin ↑ clarithromycin ↑ telithromycin ↑ cobicistat Patients with CLcr greater than or equal to 60 mL/minute: No dosage adjustment of clarithromycin is required. Patients with CLcr between 50 mL/minute and 60 mL/minute: The dosage of clarithromycin should be reduced by 50%. Anticoagulants: warfarin Effect on warfarin unknown Monitor the international normalized ratio (INR) upon coadministration with GENVOYA. Anticonvulsants: ethosuximide oxcarbazepine ↑ ethosuximide ↓ elvitegravir ↓ cobicistat ↓ TAF Alternative anticonvulsants should be considered when GENVOYA is administered with oxcarbazepine. Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration of ethosuximide with GENVOYA. Antidepressants: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) e.g., paroxetine Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) e.g., amitriptyline desipramine imipramine nortriptyline bupropion trazodone ↑ SSRIs (except sertraline) ↑ TCAs ↑ trazodone Careful dosage titration of the antidepressant and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended when coadministered with GENVOYA. Antifungals: itraconazole ketoconazole voriconazole ↑ elvitegravir ↑ cobicistat ↑ itraconazole ↑ ketoconazole ↑ voriconazole When administering with GENVOYA, the maximum daily dosage of ketoconazole or itraconazole should not exceed 200 mg per day. An assessment of benefit/risk ratio is recommended to justify use of voriconazole with GENVOYA. Anti-gout: colchicine ↑ colchicine GENVOYA is not recommended to be coadministered with colchicine to patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Treatment of gout-flares – coadministration of colchicine in patients receiving GENVOYA: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) × 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course to be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout-flares – coadministration of colchicine in patients receiving GENVOYA: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever – coadministration of colchicine in patients receiving GENVOYA: Maximum daily dosage of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Antimycobacterial: rifabutin rifapentine ↓ elvitegravir ↓ cobicistat ↓ TAF Coadministration of GENVOYA with rifabutin or rifapentine is not recommended. Antipsychotics: quetiapine ↑ quetiapine Initiation of GENVOYA in patients taking quetiapine: Consider alternative antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in quetiapine exposure. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the quetiapine dose to 1/6 of the current dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on adverse reaction monitoring. Initiation of quetiapine in patients taking GENVOYA: Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for initial dosing and titration of quetiapine. Benzodiazepines: e.g., Parenterally administered midazolam clorazepate diazepam estazolam flurazepam lorazepam ↑ diazepam ↔ lorazepam ↑ midazolam Coadministration of GENVOYA with diazepam or parenterally administered midazolam should be done in a setting that ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Based on non-CYP-mediated elimination pathways for lorazepam, no effect on plasma concentrations is expected upon coadministration with GENVOYA. Beta-Blockers: e.g., metoprolol timolol ↑ beta-blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended and a dosage decrease of the beta blocker may be necessary when these agents are coadministered with GENVOYA. Calcium Channel Blockers: e.g., amlodipine diltiazem felodipine nicardipine nifedipine verapamil ↑ calcium channel blockers Caution is warranted and clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration of calcium channel blockers with GENVOYA. Corticosteroid: Systemic: dexamethasone ↓ elvitegravir ↓ cobicistat An alternative corticosteroid should be considered for coadministration with GENVOYA. Corticosteroid: Inhaled/Nasal: fluticasone ↑ fluticasone Alternative corticosteroids should be considered, particularly for long term use. Endothelin Receptor Antagonists: bosentan ↑ bosentan Coadministration of bosentan in patients on GENVOYA: In patients who have been receiving GENVOYA for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Coadministration of GENVOYA in patients on bosentan: Discontinue use of bosentan at least 36 hours prior to initiation of GENVOYA. After at least 10 days following the initiation of GENVOYA, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: atorvastatin ↑ atorvastatin Initiate with the lowest starting dose of atorvastatin and titrate carefully while monitoring for safety. Hormonal Contraceptives: norgestimate/ethinyl estradiol ↑ norgestimate ↓ ethinyl estradiol The effects of increases in the concentration of the progestational component norgestimate are not fully known and can include increased risk of insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, acne, and venous thrombosis. The potential risks and benefits associated with coadministration of norgestimate/ethinyl estradiol with GENVOYA should be considered, particularly in women who have risk factors for these events. The effect of GENVOYA on other hormonal contraceptives (e.g., contraceptive patch, contraceptive vaginal ring, or injectable contraceptives) or oral contraceptives containing progestogens other than norgestimate is not known; therefore, alternative (non-hormonal) methods of contraception can be considered. Immuno-suppressants: e.g., cyclosporine (CsA) sirolimus tacrolimus ↑ immuno-suppressants ↑ elvitegravir (with CsA) ↑ cobicistat (with CsA) Therapeutic monitoring of the immunosuppressive agents is recommended upon coadministration with GENVOYA. Monitor for adverse events associated with GENVOYA when coadministered with cyclosporine. Narcotic Analgesics: buprenorphine/naloxone ↑ buprenorphine ↑ norbuprenorphine ↓ naloxone No dosage adjustment of buprenorphine/naloxone is required upon coadministration with GENVOYA. Patients should be closely monitored for sedation and cognitive effects. Inhaled Beta Agonist: salmeterol ↑ salmeterol Coadministration of salmeterol and GENVOYA is not recommended. Coadministration of salmeterol with GENVOYA may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Neuroleptics: e.g., perphenazine risperidone thioridazine ↑ neuroleptics A decrease in dosage of the neuroleptic may be needed when coadministered with GENVOYA. Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) Inhibitors: sildenafil tadalafil vardenafil ↑ PDE5 inhibitors Coadministration with GENVOYA may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor associated adverse reactions, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Use of sildenafil is contraindicated when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). The following dose adjustments are recommended for the use of tadalafil with GENVOYA: Coadministration of tadalafil in patients on GENVOYA: In patients receiving GENVOYA for at least 1 week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase tadalafil dose to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Coadministration of GENVOYA in patients on tadalafil: Avoid use of tadalafil during the initiation of GENVOYA. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting GENVOYA. After at least one week following initiation of GENVOYA, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase tadalafil dose to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: Sildenafil at a single dose not exceeding 25 mg in 48 hours, vardenafil at a single dose not exceeding 2.5 mg in 72 hours, or tadalafil at a single dose not exceeding 10 mg in 72 hours can be used with increased monitoring for PDE-5 inhibitor associated with adverse events. Sedative/hypnotics: buspirone zolpidem ↑ sedatives/hypnotics With sedative/hypnotics, dose reduction may be necessary and clinical monitoring is recommended. 7.6 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with GENVOYA Based on drug interaction studies conducted with the components of GENVOYA, no clinically significant drug interactions have been either observed or are expected when GENVOYA is combined with the following drugs: entecavir, famciclovir, H2 receptor antagonists, ledipasvir, lorazepam, methadone, proton pump inhibitors, ribavirin, sertraline, and sofosbuvir.",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse drug reactions are discussed in other sections of the labeling: Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Severe Acute Exacerbations of Hepatitis B [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immune Reconstitution Syndrome [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Bone Loss and Mineralization Defects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Most common adverse reaction (incidence greater than or equal to 10%, all grades) is nausea. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gilead Sciences, Inc. at 1-800-GILEAD-5 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Clinical Trials in Treatment Naïve Adults The primary safety assessment of GENVOYA was based on Week 48 pooled data from 1733 subjects in two randomized, double-blind, active-controlled trials, Study 104 and Study 111, in antiretroviral treatment-naïve HIV-1 infected adult subjects. A total of 866 subjects received one tablet of GENVOYA once daily [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. The most common adverse reaction (all Grades) reported in at least 10% of subjects in the GENVOYA group was nausea. The proportion of subjects who discontinued treatment with GENVOYA or STRIBILD® due to adverse events, regardless of severity, was 0.9% and 1.5%, respectively. Table 2 displays the frequency of adverse reactions (all Grades) greater than or equal to 5% in the GENVOYA group. Table 2 Adverse ReactionsFrequencies of adverse reactions are based on all adverse events attributed to study drugs by the investigator. (All Grades) Reported in ≥ 5% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment Naïve Adults Receiving GENVOYA in Studies 104 and 111 (Week 48 analysis) GENVOYA N=866 STRIBILD N=867 GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Diarrhea 7% 9% Nausea 10% 13% GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS Fatigue 5% 4% NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Headache 6% 5% The majority of events presented in Table 2 occurred at severity Grade 1. Clinical Trials in Virologically Suppressed Adults The safety of GENVOYA in virologically-suppressed adults was based on Week 48 data from 959 subjects in a randomized, open-label, active-controlled trial (Study 109) in which virologically-suppressed subjects were switched from a TDF-containing combination regimen to GENVOYA one tablet taken orally once daily. Overall, the safety profile of GENVOYA in subjects in this study was similar to that of treatment naïve subjects [see Clinical Studies (14.3)]. Clinical Trials in Adult Subjects with Renal Impairment In an open-label trial (Study 112), 248 HIV-1 infected subjects with eGFR of 30 to 69 mL per minute (by Cockcroft-Gault method) were treated with GENVOYA for a median duration of 43 weeks. Of these subjects, 64% had previously been on a stable TDF-containing regimen. Among the 80 subjects with baseline eGFR less than 50 mL per minute receiving GENVOYA, two subjects developed worsening renal impairment and discontinued treatment. One subject with an eGFR over 50 mL per minute developed transient acute renal failure. Otherwise, the safety profile of GENVOYA in subjects in this study was similar to that of subjects with normal renal function [see Clinical Studies (14.4)]. Renal Laboratory Tests Treatment Naïve Adults: In two 48-week randomized, controlled trials in a total of 1733 treatment naïve adults with a median baseline eGFR of 115 mL per minute, mean serum creatinine increased by 0.1 mg per dL in the GENVOYA and STRIBILD groups from baseline to Week 48. Median urine protein-to-creatinine ratio (UPCR) was 44 mg per gram at baseline and at Week 48 in the GENVOYA group. Median UPCR was 44 mg per gram at baseline and 55 mg per gram at Week 48 in those receiving STRIBILD. Virologically Suppressed Adults: In a study of 1436 virologically-suppressed TDF-treated adults with a mean baseline eGFR of 112 mL per minute who were randomized to continue their treatment regimen or switch to GENVOYA, at Week 48 mean serum creatinine was similar to baseline for both those continuing baseline treatment and those switching to GENVOYA. Median UPCR was 61 mg per gram at baseline and 46 mg per gram at Week 48 in subjects switching to GENVOYA. In subjects remaining on their initial regimen, UPCR was 60 mg per gram at baseline and 63 mg per gram at Week 48. Adult Subjects with Renal Impairment: In a 24-week trial in 248 subjects with renal impairment (baseline eGFR 30 to 69 mL per minute) who received GENVOYA, mean serum creatinine was 1.5 mg per dL at both baseline and Week 24. Median UPCR was 161 mg per gram at baseline and 93 mg per gram at Week 24. Bone Mineral Density Effects Treatment Naïve Adults: In the pooled analysis of Studies 104 and 111, bone mineral density (BMD) from baseline to Week 48 was assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to compare the bone safety of TAF to that of TDF when administered as GENVOYA or STRIBILD, respectively. Mean BMD decreased from baseline to Week 48 -1.30% with GENVOYA compared to -2.86% with STRIBILD at the lumbar spine and -0.66% compared to -2.95% at the total hip. BMD declines of 5% or greater at the lumbar spine were experienced by 10% of GENVOYA subjects and 22% of STRIBILD subjects. BMD declines of 7% or greater at the femoral neck were experienced by 7% of GENVOYA subjects and 19% of STRIBILD subjects. The long-term clinical significance of these BMD changes is not known. Fractures (excluding fingers and toes) were reported in 7 (0.8%) subjects in the GENVOYA group and 12 (1.4%) subjects in the STRIBILD group through 48 weeks. Virologically Suppressed Adults: In Study 109, TDF-treated subjects were randomized to continue their TDF-based regimen or switch to GENVOYA; changes in BMD from baseline to Week 48 were assessed by DXA. Mean BMD increased in subjects who switched to GENVOYA (1.86% lumbar spine, 1.95% total hip) and decreased slightly in subjects who continued their baseline regimen (-0.11% lumbar spine, -0.14% total hip). BMD declines of 5% or greater at the lumbar spine were experienced by 1% of GENVOYA subjects and 6% of subjects who continued their TDF-based regimen. BMD declines of 7% or greater at the femoral neck were experienced by 1% of GENVOYA subjects and 4% of subjects who continued their TDF-based regimen. Fractures (excluding fingers and toes) were reported in 10 (1%) subjects who switched to GENVOYA and 2 (0.4%) subjects who continued their TDF-based regimen through 48 weeks. Laboratory Abnormalities: The frequency of laboratory abnormalities (Grades 3–4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects receiving GENVOYA in Studies 104 and 111 are presented in Table 3. Table 3 Laboratory Abnormalities (Grades 3–4) Reported in ≥ 2% of Subjects Receiving GENVOYA in Studies 104 and 111 (Week 48 analysis) Laboratory Parameter AbnormalityFrequencies are based on treatment-emergent laboratory abnormalities. GENVOYA N=866 STRIBILD N=867 Creatine Kinase (≥10.0 × ULN) 7% 6% LDL-cholesterol (fasted) (>190 mg/dL) 5% 2% Total cholesterol (fasted) (>300mg/dL) 2% 1% Serum Lipids: Subjects receiving GENVOYA experienced greater increases in serum lipids compared to those receiving STRIBILD. Changes from baseline in total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, triglycerides and total cholesterol to HDL ratio are presented in Table 4. Table 4 Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Reported in Subjects Receiving GENVOYA or STRIBILD in Studies 104 and 111Excludes subjects who received lipid lowering agents during the treatment period. GENVOYA N=866 STRIBILD N=867 Baseline Week 48 Baseline Week 48 mg/dL ChangeThe change from baseline is the mean of within-subject changes from baseline for subjects with both baseline and Week 48 values. mg/dL Change Total Cholesterol (fasted) 162 [N=757] +30 [N=757] 166 [N=742] +13 [N=742] HDL-cholesterol (fasted) 46 [N=757] +7 [N=757] 45 [N=742] +4 [N=742] LDL-cholesterol (fasted) 104 [N=753] +15 [N=753] 107 [N=744] +3 [N=744] Triglycerides (fasted) 113 [N=757] +29 [N=757] 119 [N=742] +10 [N=742] Total Cholesterol to HDL ratio 3.7 [N=757] 0.2 [N=757] 3.9 [N=742] 0 [N=742] Clinical Trials in Pediatric Subjects: The safety of GENVOYA in HIV-1 infected, treatment naïve pediatric subjects aged 12 to less than 18 years was evaluated through 24 weeks in an open-label clinical trial (Study 106) [see Clinical Studies (14.5)]. The safety profile in 23 adolescent subjects who received treatment with GENVOYA was similar to that in adults. One 13 year old female subject developed unexplained uveitis while receiving GENVOYA that resolved and did not require discontinuation of GENVOYA. Among the 23 pediatric subjects receiving GENVOYA for 24 weeks, mean BMD increased from baseline to Week 24, + 1.7% at the lumbar spine and + 0.8% for the total body less head. Mean changes from baseline BMD Z-scores were -0.10 for lumbar spine and -0.11 for total body less head at Week 24. Two GENVOYA subjects had significant (greater than 4%) lumbar spine BMD loss at Week 24."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Avoid coadministration with other antiretroviral products: Do not use with drugs containing elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, lamivudine, ritonavir, or adefovir dipivoxil. (5.3) Risk of adverse reactions or loss of virologic response due to drug interactions: The concomitant use of GENVOYA and other drugs may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions, some of which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect of GENVOYA and possible development of resistance; and possible clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of concomitant drugs. (5.4) Redistribution/accumulation of body fat: Observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. (5.5) Immune reconstitution syndrome: May necessitate further evaluation and treatment. (5.6) New onset or worsening renal impairment: Assess creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein in all patients before initiating GENVOYA therapy and monitor during therapy. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients with chronic kidney disease. (5.7) Bone loss and mineralization defects: Consider monitoring BMD in patients with a history of pathologic fracture or other risk factors of osteoporosis or bone loss. (5.8) 5.1 Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs in combination with other antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women. Obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for liver disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Treatment with GENVOYA should be suspended in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations) [see Boxed Warning]. 5.2 Patients Coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV It is recommended that all patients with HIV-1 be tested for the presence of hepatitis B virus (HBV) before initiating antiretroviral therapy [see Dosage and Administration (2.1)]. GENVOYA is not approved for the treatment of chronic HBV infection and the safety and efficacy of GENVOYA have not been established in patients coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV. Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV and have discontinued products containing emtricitabine and/or TDF, and may occur with GENVOYA. In some patients infected with HBV and treated with emtricitabine, the exacerbations of hepatitis B were associated with liver decompensation and liver failure. Patients coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV who discontinue GENVOYA should be closely monitored with both clinical and laboratory follow-up for at least several months after stopping treatment. If appropriate, initiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted, especially in patients with advanced liver disease or cirrhosis since post-treatment exacerbation of hepatitis may lead to hepatic decompensation and liver failure [see Boxed Warning]. 5.3 Avoid Use with Other Antiretroviral Products Coadministration of GENVOYA with other antiretroviral products is not recommended [see Drug Interactions (7.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. GENVOYA is not recommended for coadministration with drugs that contain any of the following: elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, lamivudine, adefovir dipivoxil, ritonavir. 5.4 Risk of Adverse Reactions or Loss of Virologic Response Due to Drug Interactions The concomitant use of GENVOYA and other drugs may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions, some of which may lead to [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.5)]: Loss of therapeutic effect of GENVOYA and possible development of resistance. Possible clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of concomitant drugs. See Table 5 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations. Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during GENVOYA therapy; review concomitant medications during GENVOYA therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant drugs. 5.5 Fat Redistribution Redistribution or accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and \"cushingoid appearance\" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.6 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including emtricitabine, a component of GENVOYA. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections [such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis], which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution, however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.7 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome (renal tubular injury with severe hypophosphatemia), has been reported with the use of tenofovir prodrugs in both animal toxicology studies and human trials. In clinical trials of GENVOYA, there have been no cases of Fanconi syndrome or Proximal Renal Tubulopathy (PRT). In clinical trials of GENVOYA in treatment naïve subjects and in virally suppressed subjects switched to GENVOYA with eGFRs greater than 50 mL per minute, renal serious adverse events or discontinuations due to renal adverse reactions were encountered in less than 1% of participants treated with GENVOYA. In a study of virally suppressed subjects with baseline eGFRs between 30 and 69 mL per minute treated with GENVOYA for a median duration of 43 weeks, GENVOYA was permanently discontinued due to worsening renal function in two of 80 (3%) subjects with a baseline eGFR between 30 and 50 mL per minute [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. GENVOYA is not recommended in patients with estimated creatinine clearance below 30 mL per minute because data in this population are insufficient. Patients taking tenofovir prodrugs who have impaired renal function and those taking nephrotoxic agents including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are at increased risk of developing renal-related adverse reactions. Estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose and urine protein should be assessed before initiating GENVOYA therapy and should be monitored during therapy in all patients. Serum phosphorus should be monitored in patients with chronic kidney disease because these patients are at greater risk of developing Fanconi syndrome on tenofovir prodrugs. Discontinue GENVOYA in patients who develop clinically significant decreases in renal function or evidence of Fanconi syndrome. Cobicistat, a component of GENVOYA, produces elevations of serum creatinine due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting glomerular filtration [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The elevation is typically seen within 2 weeks of starting therapy and is reversible after discontinuation. Patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg per dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety. 5.8 Bone Loss and Mineralization Defects Bone Mineral Density (BMD): In animal toxicology studies and human clinical trials, TAF and tenofovir have been associated with decreases in bone mineral density and increases in biochemical markers of bone metabolism suggestive of increased bone turnover. In clinical trials in HIV-1 infected treatment-naïve adults, a significant decline in bone mineral density was observed in 15% of subjects treated with GENVOYA [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The long-term clinical significance of these changes has not been established. Assessment of BMD should be considered for adults and pediatric patients treated with GENVOYA who have a history of pathologic bone fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss. Calcium and vitamin D supplementation may be beneficial for all patients. If bone abnormalities are suspected then appropriate consultation should be obtained. Mineralization Defects: Cases of osteomalacia associated with proximal renal tubulopathy, manifested as bone pain or pain in extremities and which may contribute to fractures, have been reported in association with the use of TDF-containing products. Hypophosphatemia and osteomalacia secondary to proximal renal tubulopathy have occurred in patients at risk of renal dysfunction who present with persistent or worsening bone or muscle symptoms while receiving products containing TDF [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. While not observed in clinical studies of GENVOYA, the risk of osteomalacia with GENVOYA is not known."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Cobicistat+AND+Tablets&limit=1&skip=2
Page 2 of 8
        "generic_name": [
          "COBICISTAT"
        "brand_name": [
          "Tybost"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See also Dosage and Administration (2), Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.3, 5.4), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3). TYBOST, in combination with atazanavir or darunavir, can alter the concentration of drugs metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6. Drugs that induce CYP3A can alter the concentrations of TYBOST, atazanavir and darunavir. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. (4, 5.3, 7, 12.3) 7.1 Potential Effect of Cobicistat (Coadministered with Atazanavir or Darunavir) on the Pharmacokinetics of Concomitant Drugs Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. The transporters that cobicistat inhibits include p-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. The plasma concentration of drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6, or are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 or OATP1B3 may be increased if those drugs are coadministered with TYBOST. Based on in vitro data, cobicistat is not expected to induce CYP1A2 or CYP2B6 and based on in vivo data, cobicistat is not expected to induce MDR1 or, in general, CYP3A to a clinically significant extent. The induction effect of cobicistat on CYP2C9, CYP2C19, or UGT1A1 is unknown, but is expected to be low based on CYP3A in vitro induction data. Coadministration of TYBOST with atazanavir or darunavir with drugs highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is contraindicated. Coadministration with other CYP3A substrates may require a dose adjustment or additional monitoring as shown in Table 6. 7.2 Potential Effect of Concomitant Drugs on the Pharmacokinetics of Cobicistat (Coadministered with Atazanavir or Darunavir) Cobicistat is metabolized by CYP3A, and to a minor extent, by CYP2D6. Atazanavir and darunavir are also metabolized by CYP3A. Coadministration of TYBOST with atazanavir or darunavir in combination with drugs that induce CYP3A activity have the potential to decrease plasma concentrations of cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir, which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance (see Table 6). Coadministration of TYBOST with atazanavir or darunavir in combination with other drugs that inhibit CYP3A may further increase the plasma concentrations of cobicistat, atazanavir and darunavir (see Table 6). 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Interactions Coadministration of TYBOST with fosamprenavir, saquinavir, or tipranavir is not recommended because pharmacokinetic data are not available to provide appropriate dosing recommendations. Use of TYBOST with lopinavir is not recommended because lopinavir is co-formulated with ritonavir. Drug interaction trials were not conducted for TYBOST in combination with atazanavir or darunavir. As a single entity, drug interaction trials were conducted with TYBOST and desipramine, digoxin, and efavirenz. Table 6 provides dosing recommendations as a result of drug interactions with TYBOST. These recommendations are based on either drug interaction trials or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of the interaction and potential for serious adverse events or loss of therapeutic effect. In Table 6, if not specifically stated, the drug interaction information applies to both coadministered agents: TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In addition to the drug interactions noted in Table 6, TYBOST is not recommended for use in combination with STRIBILD tablets, lopinavir/ritonavir or regimens containing ritonavir, or in combination with more than one antiretroviral agent that requires pharmacokinetic enhancement [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. Evaluate whether dosing adjustments of concomitant medications or coadministered antiretroviral drugs are necessary in: Patients on a stable concomitant medication who initiate or switch to a TYBOST-containing regimen Patients on a TYBOST-containing regimen who initiate a new concomitant medication Patients initiating a TYBOST-containing regimen and a new concomitant medication simultaneously Under these circumstances, also monitor for adverse events and/or monitor concentrations of concomitant medications if appropriate. No dose adjustment is required when tenofovir DF or rilpivirine are coadministered with TYBOST and atazanavir or darunavir. Table 6 Established and Other Potentially SignificantThis table is not all inclusive. Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Potential Effect↑ = Increase, ↓ = Decrease, ↔ = No change Clinical Comment Antiretroviral Agents: Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) efavirenz ↓ cobicistat ↓ darunavir ↓ atazanavir TYBOST coadministered with darunavir: Coadministration of darunavir and TYBOST with efavirenz is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to darunavir. TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir: In treatment-naïve patients: Atazanavir 400 mg with TYBOST 150 mg should be coadministered once daily as a single dose with food, and efavirenz 600 mg should be administered once daily on an empty stomach, preferably at bedtime. In treatment-experienced patients: Coadministration of atazanavir and TYBOST with efavirenz in treatment-experienced patients is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. etravirine ↓ cobicistat darunavir: effect unknown ↓ atazanavir Coadministration with etravirine is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir or darunavir. nevirapine ↓ cobicistat darunavir: effect unknown TYBOST coadministration with nevirapine and darunavir is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to darunavir. Antiretroviral Agents: CCR5 Antagonists maraviroc ↑ maraviroc Maraviroc is a substrate of CYP3A. When coadministering with maraviroc, patients should receive maraviroc 150 mg twice daily. Other Agents: Antacids: e.g., aluminum and magnesium hydroxide (please also see H2-Receptor Antagonists and Proton Pump Inhibitors below) ↓ atazanavir TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir: With concomitant use, administer a minimum of 2 hours apart. Antiarrhythmics: e.g., amiodarone disopyramide flecainide mexiletine propafenone quinidine ↑ antiarrhythmics Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration with antiarrhythmics. digoxin ↑ digoxin When coadministering with digoxin, titrate the digoxin dose and monitor digoxin concentrations. Antibacterials (macrolide or ketolide antibiotics): clarithromycin erythromycin telithromycin ↑ clarithromycin ↑ erythromycin ↑ telithromycin ↑ cobicistat ↑ atazanavir ↑ darunavir Consider alternative antibiotics with concomitant use of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir. Anticancer Agents: dasatinib nilotinib vinblastine vincristine ↑ anticancer agents A decrease in the dosage or an adjustment of the dosing interval of dasatinib or nilotinib may be necessary upon coadministration with TYBOST. Consult the dasatinib and nilotinib prescribing information for dosing instructions. For vincristine and vinblastine, monitor for hematologic or gastrointestinal side effects. Anticoagulants: warfarin warfarin: effect unknown Monitor the international normalized ratio (INR) when coadministering with warfarin. rivaroxaban ↑ rivaroxaban Avoid coadministration with rivaroxaban which may result in increased exposure of rivaroxaban and increased risk of bleeding. Anticonvulsants: Anticonvulsants that induce CYP3A (e.g., oxcarbazepine) ↓ cobicistat ↓ atazanavir darunavir: effect unknown Consider alternative anticonvulsant or antiretroviral therapy to avoid potential changes in exposures. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for lack or loss of virologic response. Anticonvulsants that are metabolized by CYP3A (e.g., clonazepam) ↑ clonazepam Clinical monitoring of anticonvulsants is recommended. Antidepressants: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) e.g., paroxetine Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) e.g., amitriptyline desipramine imipramine nortriptyline Other antidepressants: trazodone SSRIs: effects unknown ↑ TCAs ↑ trazodone When coadministering with SSRIs, TCAs, or trazodone, careful dose titration of the antidepressant to the desired effect, including using the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose, and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended. Antifungals: itraconazole ketoconazole ↑ itraconazole ↑ ketoconazole Specific dosing recommendations are not available for coadministration with itraconazole or ketoconazole. voriconazole Voriconazole: effects unknown ↑ cobicistat ↑ atazanavir ↑ darunavir Coadministration with voriconazole is not recommended unless the benefit/risk assessment justifies the use of voriconazole. Anti-gout: colchicine ↑ colchicine Coadministration with colchicine in patients with renal or hepatic impairment is not recommended. Treatment of gout flares – coadministration of colchicine: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) × 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course to be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares – coadministration of colchicine: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever – coadministration of colchicine: Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Antimycobacterial: rifabutin ↑ rifabutin cobicistat: effects unknown darunavir: effects unknown atazanavir: effects unknown The recommended dosage regimen for rifabutin is 150 mg every other day. Monitor for rifabutin associated adverse reactions including neutropenia and uveitis. Beta-Blockers: e.g., metoprolol carvedilol timolol ↑ beta-blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with beta-blockers that are metabolized by CYP2D6. Calcium Channel Blockers: e.g., amlodipine diltiazem felodipine nifedipine verapamil ↑ calcium channel blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A. Corticosteroids (systemic): e.g., dexamethasone ↓ cobicistat ↓ darunavir ↓ atazanavir ↑corticosteroids Coadministration with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids that induce CYP3A may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir or darunavir. Consider alternative corticosteroids. Coadministration with corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A, particularly for long-term use, may increase the risk for development of systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression. Consider the potential benefit of treatment versus the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. Inhaled/Nasal Corticosteroids: e.g., fluticasone budesonide ↑ corticosteroids Coadministration with inhaled or nasal fluticasone or other corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A may result in reduced serum cortisol concentrations. Alternative corticosteroids should be considered, particularly for long term use. Endothelin Receptor Antagonists: bosentan ↑ bosentan ↓ cobicistat ↓ darunavir ↓ atazanavir Initiation of bosentan in patients taking TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir : In patients who have been receiving TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir in patients taking bosentan: Discontinue use of bosentan at least 36 hours prior to initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir. After at least 10 days following the initiation of TYBOST combined with atazanavir or darunavir, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Switching from ritonavir to TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir: Maintain bosentan dose. H2-Receptor Antagonists: e.g., famotidine ↓ atazanavir TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir: Administer atazanavir/TYBOST either at the same time or a minimum of 10 hours after administering H2-receptor antagonists. The dose of the H2-receptor antagonist should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily in treatment-naïve patients or 20 mg twice daily in treatment-experienced patients. TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir and tenofovir DF: Treatment-experienced patients: The recommended once daily dosage regimen is TYBOST 150 mg coadministered with atazanavir 400 mg with concomitant use of H2-receptor antagonists and tenofovir. HCV Protease Inhibitors: boceprevir darunavir: effects unknown atazanavir: effects unknown boceprevir: effects unknown No drug interaction data are available. Coadministration with boceprevir or simeprevir is not recommended. simeprevir ↑ simeprevir HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: e.g., atorvastatin rosuvastatin ↑ HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors For HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are not contraindicated with TYBOST, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate while monitoring for safety [see Contraindications (4)]. Hormonal Contraceptives: progestin/estrogen progestin: effects unknown estrogen: effects unknown No data are available to make recommendations on the coadministration of TYBOST and atazanavir or darunavir with oral or other hormonal contraceptives. Additional or alternative (non-hormonal) forms of contraception should be considered. Immuno-suppressants: cyclosporine everolimus sirolimus tacrolimus ↑ immuno-suppressants These immunosuppressant agents are metabolized by CYP3A. Therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended if coadministered. Inhaled Beta Agonist: salmeterol ↑ salmeterol Coadministration with salmeterol is not recommended and may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Narcotic Analgesics For treatment of opioid dependence: buprenorphine buprenorphine/ naloxone methadone buprenorphine or buprenorphine/ naloxone: effects unknown methadone: effects unknown Initiation of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone, or methadone in patients taking TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir: Carefully titrate the dose of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone, or methadone to the desired effect; use the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose. Initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir in patients taking buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone, or methadone: A dose adjustment for buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone, or methadone may be needed. Monitor clinical signs and symptoms. fentanyl ↑ fentanyl Careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects of fentanyl (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended with coadministration. tramadol ↑ tramadol A dose decrease may be needed for tramadol with concomitant use. Neuroleptics: e.g., perphenazine risperidone thioridazine ↑ neuroleptics A decrease in the dose of neuroleptics that are CYP3A or CYP2D6 metabolized may be needed upon coadministration. Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) Inhibitors: avanafil sildenafil tadalafil vardenafil ↑ PDE-5 inhibitors Coadministration with avanafil is not recommended because a safe and effective avanafil dosage regimen has not been established. Coadministration with TYBOST may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor associated adverse events, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Use of sildenafil is contraindicated when used for the treatment of PAH [see Contraindications (4)]. The following dose adjustments are recommended for tadalafil concomitant use: Initiation of tadalafil in patients taking TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir: In patients taking TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir for at least 1 week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase tadalafil dose to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir in patients taking tadalafil: Avoid use of tadalafil during the initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir. After at least one week following initiation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase tadalafil dose to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Patients switching from ritonavir to TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir or darunavir: Maintain tadalafil dose. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: Sildenafil at a single dose not exceeding 25 mg in 48 hours, tadalafil at a single dose not exceeding 10 mg in 72 hours, or vardenafil at a single dose not exceeding 2.5 mg in 72 hours can be used with increased monitoring for PDE-5 inhibitor associated adverse events. Proton-pump Inhibitors (PPIs) e.g., omeprazole ↓ atazanavir TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir: In treatment-naïve patients, administer TYBOST with atazanavir a minimum of 12 hours after administering PPIs. The dose of the PPI should not exceed a dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg daily. In treatment-experienced patients, coadministration with PPIs, with or without tenofovir, is not recommended. Sedative/Hypnotics: e.g., buspirone diazepam parenterally-administered midazolam ↑ sedatives/hypnotics Coadministration with parenteral midazolam may increase plasma concentrations of midazolam. Coadministration should be done in a setting that ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosing reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Concomitant use with oral midazolam is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. With other sedatives/hypnotics that are CYP3A metabolized, dose reduction may be necessary and clinical monitoring is recommended."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reaction is described in greater detail in another section of the labeling: New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment When Used with Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] The most common adverse drug reactions observed with TYBOST in combination with atazanavir (incidence greater than 5%, Grades 2–4) are jaundice and rash. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gilead Sciences, Inc. at 1-800-GILEAD-5 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of TYBOST is based on Week 144 data from a Phase 3 trial, Study 114, in which 692 HIV-1 infected, antiretroviral treatment-naïve subjects received: TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir and tenofovir DF/emtricitabine (administered as TRUVADA) (N=344) or; ritonavir coadministered with atazanavir and tenofovir DF/emtricitabine (administered as TRUVADA) (N=348). The most common adverse reactions (Grades 2–4) and reported in >5% of subjects in the TYBOST group were jaundice (6%), and rash (5%). The proportion of subjects who discontinued study treatment due to adverse events, regardless of severity, was 11% in both the TYBOST and ritonavir groups. Table 3 displays the frequency of adverse reactions (Grades 2–4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the TYBOST group in Study 114. Table 3 Selected Adverse ReactionsFrequencies of adverse reactions are based on Grades 2–4 adverse events attributed to study drugs. (Grades 2–4) Reported in ≥2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naïve Adults in the TYBOST Coadministered with Atazanavir Group in Study 114 (Week 144 Analysis) TYBOST Coadministered with Atazanavir + TRUVADA N=344 Ritonavir Coadministered with Atazanavir + TRUVADA N=348 Jaundice 6% 3% RashRash events include dermatitis allergic, drug hypersensitivity, pruritus generalized, eosinophilic pustular folliculitis, rash, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculo-papular, rash morbilliform, rash papular, and urticaria. 5% 4% Ocular icterus 4% 2% Nausea 2% 2% Diarrhea 2% 1% Headache 2% 1% Less Common Adverse Reactions Selected adverse reactions of at least moderate severity (≥ Grade 2) occurring in less than 2% of subjects receiving TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir and TRUVADA are listed below. These events have been included because of the investigator's assessment of potential causal relationship and were considered serious or have been reported in more than one subject treated with TYBOST and with greater frequency compared with ritonavir. Gastrointestinal Disorders: vomiting, upper abdominal pain General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: fatigue Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: rhabdomyolysis Psychiatric Disorders: depression, abnormal dreams, insomnia Renal and Urinary Disorders: nephropathy, Fanconi syndrome acquired, nephrolithiasis Refer to the prescribing information for atazanavir or darunavir for information regarding adverse reactions with these drugs. Laboratory Abnormalities: The frequency of laboratory abnormalities (Grades 3–4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the TYBOST group in Study 114 is presented in Table 4. Table 4 Laboratory Abnormalities (Grades 3–4) in ≥2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naïve Adults in the TYBOST Coadministered with Atazanavir Group in Study 114 (Week 144 Analysis) TYBOST + Atazanavir + TRUVADA Ritonavir + Atazanavir + TRUVADA Laboratory Parameter Abnormality N=344 N=348 Total Bilirubin (>2.5 × ULN) 73% 66% Creatine Kinase (≥10.0 × ULN) 8% 9% Urine RBC (Hematuria) (>75 RBC/HPF) 6% 3% ALT (>5.0 × ULN) 6% 3% AST (>5.0 × ULN) 4% 3% GGT (>5.0 × ULN) 4% 2% Serum AmylaseFor subjects with serum amylase >1.5 × upper limit of normal, lipase test was also performed. The frequency of increased lipase (Grades 3–4) occurring in the TYBOST (N=46) and ritonavir (N=35) groups was 7% and 3%, respectively. (>2.0 × ULN) 4% 2% Urine Glucose (Glycosuria) (≥1000 mg/dL) 3% 3% Neutrophils (<750/mm3) 3% 2% Serum Glucose (Hyperglycemia) (>250 mg/dL) 2% 2% Increase in Serum Creatinine: TYBOST causes increases in serum creatinine and decreases in estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. In Study 114, increases in serum creatinine and decreases in estimated creatinine clearance occurred early in treatment with TYBOST, after which they stabilized. The mean (± SD) change in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) by Cockcroft-Gault method after 144 weeks of treatment was –15.1 ± 16.5 mL/min in the TYBOST group and –8.0 ± 16.8 mL/min in the ritonavir group. Serum Lipids: Changes from baseline in total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides are presented in Table 5. In both groups, mean values for serum lipids remained within the study reference range for each laboratory test. The clinical significance of these changes is unknown. Table 5 Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Reported in HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naïve Adults Receiving TYBOST Coadministered with Atazanavir + TRUVADA or Ritonavir Coadministered with Atazanavir + TRUVADA in Study 114 (Week 144 Analysis) TYBOST + Atazanavir + TRUVADA Ritonavir + Atazanavir + TRUVADA Baseline Week 144 Baseline Week 144 mg/dL Change from baselineThe change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 144 values. Analysis excludes subjects receiving an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor drug. mg/dL Change from baseline Total Cholesterol (fasted) 163 [N=219] +11 [N=219] 165 [N=227] +13 [N=227] HDL-cholesterol (fasted) 43 [N=218] +7 [N=218] 43 [N=228] +6 [N=228] LDL-cholesterol (fasted) 102 [N=218] +11 [N=218] 104 [N=228] +16 [N=228] Triglycerides (fasted) 130 [N=219] +14 [N=219] 131 [N=227] +14 [N=227]"
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Assess creatinine clearance (CLcr) before initiating treatment. (5.1) When TYBOST is used in combination with a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF) containing regimen, cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome have been reported. (5.2) Use with tenofovir DF: Assess urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and monitor CLcr, urine glucose, and urine protein. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients with or at risk for renal impairment. (5.2) TYBOST in combination with more than one antiretroviral that requires pharmacokinetic enhancement (i.e., two protease inhibitors or elvitegravir in combination with a protease inhibitor) is not recommended. (5.4) Use with HIV-1 protease inhibitors other than atazanavir or darunavir administered once daily are not recommended. (5.4) Coadministration with cobicistat-containing drugs, including STRIBILD®, is not recommended. (5.4) Coadministration with drugs or regimens containing ritonavir is not recommended. (5.4) 5.1 Effects on Serum Creatinine TYBOST decreases estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function. This effect should be considered when interpreting changes in estimated creatinine clearance in patients initiating TYBOST, particularly in patients with medical conditions or receiving drugs needing monitoring with estimated creatinine clearance. Prior to initiating therapy with TYBOST, assess estimated creatinine clearance [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. Dosage recommendations are not available for drugs that require dosage adjustments in TYBOST-treated patients with renal impairment [see Adverse Reactions (6.1), Drug Interactions (7.3), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. Although TYBOST may cause modest increases in serum creatinine and modest declines in estimated creatinine clearance without affecting renal glomerular function, patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg/dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety. 5.2 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment When Used with Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome, has been reported when TYBOST was used in an antiretroviral regimen that contained tenofovir DF. Coadministration of TYBOST and tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients who have an estimated creatinine clearance below 70 mL/min because dose adjustment of tenofovir DF is required below 50 mL/min and such dose adjustments have not been established for coadministration with TYBOST [see Dosage and Administration (2.2, 2.3)]. Document urine glucose and urine protein at baseline [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)] and perform routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein during treatment when TYBOST is used with tenofovir DF. Measure serum phosphorus in patients with or at risk for renal impairment when used with tenofovir DF. Coadministration of TYBOST and tenofovir DF in combination with concomitant or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent is not recommended. In a clinical trial of TYBOST over 144 weeks (N=692), 10 (2.9%) subjects treated with TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir and TRUVADA® and 11 (3.2%) subjects treated with ritonavir coadministered with atazanavir and TRUVADA discontinued study drug due to a renal adverse event. Seven of the 10 subjects (2.0% overall) in the TYBOST group had laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy leading to study drug discontinuation compared to 7 of 11 subjects (2.0% overall) in the ritonavir group. One subject in the TYBOST group had renal impairment at baseline (i.e., estimated creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min). The laboratory findings in these 7 subjects with evidence of proximal tubulopathy improved but did not completely resolve in all subjects upon discontinuation of TYBOST coadministered with atazanavir and TRUVADA. Renal replacement therapy was not required in any subject. 5.3 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions or Loss of Virologic Response Due to Drug Interactions Initiation of TYBOST, a CYP3A inhibitor, in patients receiving medications metabolized by CYP3A, or initiation of medications metabolized by CYP3A in patients already receiving TYBOST may increase plasma concentrations of medications metabolized by CYP3A. Initiation of medications that inhibit or induce CYP3A may respectively increase or decrease concentrations of TYBOST with atazanavir or darunavir. Increased concentrations may lead to: clinically significant adverse reactions, potentially leading to severe, life threatening, or fatal events from higher exposures of concomitant medications. clinically significant adverse reactions from higher exposures of TYBOST and atazanavir or darunavir. Decreased antiretroviral concentrations may lead to: loss of therapeutic effect of TYBOST with atazanavir or darunavir and possible development of resistance. See Table 6 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during TYBOST with atazanavir or darunavir therapy; review concomitant medications during TYBOST with atazanavir or darunavir therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with concomitant medications [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7)]. TYBOST or ritonavir when administered with either atazanavir or darunavir may result in different drug interactions when used with concomitant medications. Complex or unknown mechanisms of drug interactions preclude extrapolation of ritonavir drug interactions to certain TYBOST interactions [see Drug Interactions (7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.4 Antiretrovirals that are Not Recommended The following antiretrovirals are not recommended in combination with TYBOST because dosing recommendations for such combinations have not been established and coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of the antiretroviral agents, leading to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance: More than one antiretroviral that requires pharmacokinetic enhancement (i.e., two protease inhibitors or a protease inhibitor in combination with elvitegravir) Darunavir in combination with efavirenz, nevirapine, or etravirine Atazanavir in combination with etravirine Atazanavir in combination with efavirenz in treatment-experienced patients Darunavir 600 mg twice daily Other HIV-1 protease inhibitors including fosamprenavir, saquinavir, or tipranavir TYBOST in combination with STRIBILD® fixed-dose combination tablets (elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, tenofovir DF) is not recommended because cobicistat is a component of STRIBILD. TYBOST in combination with lopinavir/ritonavir or regimens containing ritonavir is not recommended due to similar effects of TYBOST and ritonavir on CYP3A."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Cobicistat+AND+Tablets&limit=1&skip=3
Page 3 of 8
        "generic_name": [
          "ATAZANAVIR AND COBICISTAT"
        "brand_name": [
          "EVOTAZ"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See also . , Contraindications (4) Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) Coadministration of EVOTAZ can alter the concentration of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentration of EVOTAZ. The potential drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. , , (4 7 12.3) 7.1 Potential for EVOTAZ to Affect Other Drugs Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A and UGT1A1 and a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. The transporters that cobicistat inhibits include P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with drugs highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is contraindicated . Coadministration of EVOTAZ and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A, UGT1A1 and/or CYP2D6 or drugs that are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 and/or OATP1B3 may result in increased plasma concentrations of the other drug that could increase or prolong its therapeutic effects and adverse reactions which may require dose adjustments and/or additional monitoring as shown in Table 5. Use of EVOTAZ is not recommended when coadministered with drugs highly dependent on CYP2C8 for clearance with narrow therapeutic indices (e.g., paclitaxel, repaglinide). [see ] Contraindications (4) [See Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3) .] 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect EVOTAZ Atazanavir and cobicistat are CYP3A4 substrates; therefore, drugs that induce CYP3A4 may decrease atazanavir and cobicistat plasma concentrations and reduce the therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ, leading to development of resistance to atazanavir (see Table 5). Cobicistat is also metabolized by CYP2D6 to a minor extent. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with other drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 may increase the plasma concentrations of cobicistat and atazanavir (see Table 5). Atazanavir solubility decreases as pH increases. Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir are expected if proton-pump inhibitors, antacids, buffered medications, or H -receptor antagonists are administered with EVOTAZ. See . 2 [ Dosage and Administration (2.1) ] 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Drug interaction trials were not conducted for EVOTAZ. Drug interaction trials were conducted with cobicistat in combination with desipramine, digoxin, or efavirenz and with cobicistat coadministered with elvitegravir in combination with other drugs including rosuvastatin and rifabutin. Table 5 provides dosing recommendations as a result of drug interactions with the components of EVOTAZ. These recommendations are based either on observed drug interactions in studies of cobicistat, atazanavir, or atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir or predicted drug interactions based on the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious events or loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ. Table 5: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interactions a Concomitant Drug Class: Specific Drugs Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment For magnitude of interactions see . a Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3) HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Nucleoside and Nucleotide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs and NtRTIs) didanosine buffered formulations enteric-coated (EC) capsules ↓ atazanavir ↓ didanosine Coadministration of atazanavir with didanosine buffered tablets resulted in a marked decrease in atazanavir exposure (presumably due to the increase in gastric pH caused by buffers in the didanosine tablets). It is recommended that EVOTAZ be given with food 2 hours before or 1 hour after didanosine buffered formulations. Simultaneous administration of didanosine EC and atazanavir with food results in a decrease in didanosine exposure. Thus, EVOTAZ and didanosine EC should be administered at different times. tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ↓ atazanavir ↑ tenofovir Patients receiving EVOTAZ and tenofovir should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions . [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.4) HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) efavirenz ↓ atazanavir ↓ cobicistat ↔ efavirenz Coadministration of EVOTAZ with efavirenz is not recommended because it may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. etravirine ↓ atazanavir ↓ cobicistat Coadministration of EVOTAZ with etravirine is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: CCR5 Antagonist maraviroc ↑ maraviroc When coadministering maraviroc and EVOTAZ, patients should receive maraviroc 150 mg twice daily. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors ritonavir or products containing ritonavir ↑ atazanavir Coadministration of EVOTAZ and ritonavir or ritonavir-containing regimens is not recommended due to similar effects of cobicistat and ritonavir on CYP3A . [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5) HCV Antiviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors boceprevir telaprevir simeprevir atazanavir: effects unknown boceprevir: effects unknown telaprevir: effects unknown ↑ simeprevir No drug interaction data are available. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with boceprevir, telaprevir, or simeprevir is not recommended. Other Agents Antacids (please also see H -receptor antagonists and proton-pump inhibitors below) 2 ↓ atazanavir With concomitant use, administer a minimum of 2 hours apart. amiodarone, quinidine lidocaine (systemic), disopyramide, flecainide mexiletine, propafenone Antiarrhythmics: ↑ antiarrhythmics Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration with antiarrhythmics. digoxin ↑ digoxin When coadministering EVOTAZ with digoxin, titrate the digoxin dose and monitor digoxin concentrations. clarithromycin erythromycin telithromycin Antibacterials (macrolide or ketolide antibiotics): ↑ atazanavir ↑ cobicistat ↑ clarithromycin ↑ erythromycin ↑ telithromycin Consider alternative antibiotics. (e.g., dasatinib, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine) Anticancer Agents: ↑ anticancer agents A decrease in the dosage or an adjustment of the dosing interval of dasatinib or nilotinib may be necessary upon coadministration with EVOTAZ. Consult the dasatinib and nilotinib full prescribing information for dosing instructions. For vincristine and vinblastine, monitor for hematologic or gastrointestinal side effects. Anticoagulant: apixaban, rivaroxaban ↑ apixaban ↑ rivaroxaban Concomitant use of apixaban or rivaroxaban and EVOTAZ is not recommended. dabigatran etexilate ↑ dabigatran Concomitant use of dabigatran etexilate and EVOTAZ is not recommended in specific renal impairment groups for certain indications. Refer to the dabigatran prescribing information for dosing recommendations for dabigatran etexilate when coadministered with P-gp inhibitors. warfarin warfarin: effect unknown Monitor the International Normalized Ratio (INR) when coadministered with warfarin. Anticonvulsants: Anticonvulsants that induce CYP3A (e.g., oxcarbazepine) ↓ atazanavir ↓ cobicistat Consider alternative anticonvulsant or antiretroviral therapy to avoid potential changes in exposures. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for lack or loss of virologic response. Anticonvulsants that are metabolized by CYP3A (e.g., clonazepam) ↑ clonazepam Clinical monitoring of anticonvulsants is recommended with EVOTAZ coadministration. Other anticonvulsants (e.g., lamotrigine) lamotrigine: effects unknown Monitoring of lamotrigine concentrations is recommended with EVOTAZ coadministration. Antidepressants: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) (e.g., paroxetine) SSRIs: effects unknown When coadministering with SSRIs, TCAs, or trazodone, careful dose titration of the antidepressant to the desired effect, using the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose, and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended. Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) (e.g., amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline) ↑ TCAs Other Antidepressants (e.g., trazodone) ↑ trazodone ketoconazole, itraconazole Antifungals: ↑ atazanavir ↑ cobicistat ↑ ketoconazole ↑ itraconazole Specific dosing recommendations are not available for coadministration of EVOTAZ with either itraconazole or ketoconazole. voriconazole effects unknown Coadministration with voriconazole is not recommended unless the benefit/risk assessment justifies the use of voriconazole. Antigout: colchicine ↑ colchicine The coadministration of EVOTAZ with colchicine in patients with renal or hepatic impairment is contraindicated . [see ] Contraindications (4) Recommended dosage of colchicine when administered with EVOTAZ: Treatment of gout flares: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) for 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course should be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF): Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). rifabutin Antimycobacterials: atazanavir: effect unknown cobicistat: effect unknown ↑ rifabutin A rifabutin dose reduction of up to 75% (e.g., 150 mg every other day or 3 times per week) is recommended. Increased monitoring for rifabutin-associated adverse reactions, including neutropenia and uveitis, is warranted. quetiapine Antipsychotics: ↑ quetiapine Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking quetiapine: Consider alternative antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in quetiapine exposures. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the quetiapine dose to 1/6 of the current dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on adverse reaction monitoring. Initiation of quetiapine in patients taking EVOTAZ: Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for initial dosing and titration of quetiapine. (e.g., metoprolol, carvedilol, timolol) Beta-Blockers: ↔ atazanavir ↑ beta-blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended when beta-blockers that are metabolized by CYP2D6 are coadministered with EVOTAZ. (e.g., amlodipine, diltiazem, felodipine, nifedipine, and verapamil) Calcium channel blockers: ↑ calcium channel blocker Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A. ECG monitoring is recommended. dexamethasone and other corticosteroids Corticosteroids (systemic): ↓ atazanavir ↓ cobicistat ↑ corticosteroids Concomitant use with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids that induce CYP3A may result in loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and development of resistance to atazanavir. Alternative corticosteroids should be considered. Coadministration with corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A, particularly for long-term use, may increase the risk for development of systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Consider the potential benefit of treatment versus the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. bosentan Endothelin receptor antagonists: ↓ atazanavir ↓ cobicistat ↑ bosentan Initiation of bosentan in patients taking EVOTAZ: For patients who have been receiving EVOTAZ for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking bosentan: Discontinue bosentan at least 36 hours before starting EVOTAZ. After at least 10 days following initiation of EVOTAZ, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Switching from atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to EVOTAZ: Maintain bosentan dose. : (e.g., famotidine) H 2 ‑Receptor antagonists (H RA) 2 ↓ atazanavir Coadministration of EVOTAZ with tenofovir DF and an H RA in treatment-experienced patients is not recommended. 2 Administer EVOTAZ either at the same time or at a minimum of 10 hours after a dose of the H RA. The dose of the H RA should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily in treatment-naive patients or 20 mg twice daily in treatment-experienced patients. 2 2 atorvastatin, fluvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: ↑ HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors For HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are not contraindicated with EVOTAZ, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate while monitoring for safety . Rosuvastatin dose should not exceed 10 mg/day. [see ] Contraindications (4) (e.g., progestin/estrogen) Hormonal contraceptives: progestin and estrogen: effects unknown No data are available to make recommendations on the coadministration of EVOTAZ and oral or other hormonal contraceptives. Alternative nonhormonal forms of contraception should be considered. (e.g., cyclosporine, everolimus, sirolimus, tacrolimus) Immunosuppressants: ↑ immunosuppressants Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for these immunosuppressants when coadministered with EVOTAZ. salmeterol Inhaled beta-agonist: ↑ salmeterol Coadministration with salmeterol is not recommended due to an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse reactions associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. budesonide, fluticasone and other inhaled or nasal steroids Inhaled/nasal steroids: ↑ corticosteroids Coadministration with inhaled or nasal corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risks. Consider alternative corticosteroids, particularly for long-term use. For treatment of opioid dependence: Narcotic analgesics: buprenorphine, naloxone, methadone buprenorphine or buprenorphine/naloxone: effects unknown methadone: effects unknown Carefully titrate the dose of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone to the desired effect; use the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose. Initiation of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone in patients taking EVOTAZ: A dose adjustment for buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone may be needed. Monitor clinical signs and symptoms. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone: fentanyl ↑ fentanyl When EVOTAZ is coadministered with fentanyl, careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects of fentanyl (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended. tramadol ↑ tramadol When EVOTAZ is coadministered with tramadol, a decreased dose of tramadol may be needed. (e.g., perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine) Neuroleptics: ↑ neuroleptics A decrease in the dose of neuroleptics that are metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6 may be needed when coadministered with EVOTAZ. avanafil, sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors: ↑ PDE-5 inhibitors Coadministration with avanafil is not recommended because a safe and effective avanafil dosage regimen has not been established. Coadministration with EVOTAZ may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor-associated adverse reactions, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): when used for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension (PAH) is contraindicated with EVOTAZ . Sildenafil [see ] Contraindications (4) : The following dose adjustments are recommended for the use of tadalafil with EVOTAZ: Tadalafil Initiation of tadalafil in patients taking EVOTAZ: For patients receiving EVOTAZ for at least one week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. o Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking tadalafil: Avoid the use of tadalafil when starting EVOTAZ. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours before starting EVOTAZ. At least one week after starting EVOTAZ, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. o Patients switching from atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to EVOTAZ: Maintain tadalafil dose. o Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: : Reduced dosage to 25 mg every 48 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Sildenafil : Reduced dosage to 10 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Tadalafil : Reduced dosage to no more than 2.5 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Vardenafil (e.g., omeprazole) Proton-pump inhibitors (PPI): ↓ atazanavir In treatment-naive patients, administer EVOTAZ a minimum of 12 hours after administration of the PPI. The dose of the PPI should not exceed a dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg daily. In treatment-experienced patients, coadministration of EVOTAZ with PPI is not recommended. buspirone, diazepam, zolpidem, and parenterally administered midazolam Sedatives/hypnotics: ↑ sedatives/hypnotics Coadministration should be done in a setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Parenterally administered midazolam: . Concomitant use with oral midazolam and triazolam is contraindicated [see ] Contraindications (4) With other sedatives/hypnotics that are CYP3A metabolized, a dose reduction may be necessary and clinical monitoring is recommended. 7.4 Drugs with No Observed or Predicted Interactions with the Components of EVOTAZ Based on known metabolic profiles, clinically significant drug interactions are not expected between EVOTAZ and acetaminophen, atenolol, dapsone, fluconazole, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, or azithromycin. [See .] Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3)",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: cardiac conduction abnormalities • [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] rash • [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] effects on serum creatinine • [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] new onset or worsening renal impairment when used with tenofovir DF • [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis • [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.5) hepatotoxicity • [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.6) hyperbilirubinemia • [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.9) For additional safety information about atazanavir and cobicistat consult the full prescribing information for these individual products. Most common adverse reactions seen with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat (greater than 2%, Grades 2-4) are jaundice, ocular icterus, and nausea. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience in Adults Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of atazanavir and cobicistat coadministered as single agents has been established from a Phase 2 trial, Study 105, and a Phase 3 trial, Study 114. In the pooled analysis, 771 HIV-1 infected, antiretroviral treatment-naive adults received for at least 48 weeks: atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (N=394) or • atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (N=377). • The most common adverse reactions (all Grades) and reported in >10% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group were jaundice (13%), ocular icterus (15%), and nausea (12%); the most common adverse reactions in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group were jaundice (11%), ocular icterus (17%), nausea (11%), and diarrhea (11%). The proportion of subjects who discontinued study treatment due to adverse events, regardless of severity, was 7% in both the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir groups. Table 2 lists the frequency of adverse reactions (Grades 2-4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group in pooled Studies 105 and 114. Table 2: Selected Adverse Reactions (Grades 2-4) Reported in ≥2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults in the Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat Group in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) a Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (n=394) Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (n=377) Frequencies of adverse reactions are based on Grades 2-4 adverse events attributed to study drugs. Rash events include dermatitis allergic, drug hypersensitivity, pruritus generalized, eosinophilic pustular folliculitis, rash, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculopapular, rash morbilliform, rash papular, and urticaria. a b Jaundice 5% 3% Rash b 5% 4% Ocular icterus 3% 1% Nausea 2% 2% Nephrolithiasis has previously been identified in patients receiving atazanavir . In the pooled analysis of Studies 105 and 114 through 48 weeks, 8 subjects (2%) receiving atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat developed nephrolithiasis compared with no subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Median time to onset of nephrolithiasis in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group was 24 weeks. Causality in these cases could not be determined with certainty, but the majority of renal stone events were not serious and no subject discontinued study drug. Nephrolithiasis: [see ] Warnings and Precautions (5.5) Less Common Adverse Reactions Selected adverse reactions of at least moderate severity (≥ Grade 2) occurring in less than 2% of subjects receiving atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF are listed below. These events have been included because of investigator’s assessment of potential causal relationship and were considered serious or have been reported in more than one subject treated with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat, and reported with greater frequency compared with the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. diarrhea, vomiting, upper abdominal pain Gastrointestinal Disorders: fatigue General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: rhabdomyolysis Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: headache Nervous System Disorders: depression, abnormal dreams, insomnia Psychiatric Disorders: nephropathy, Fanconi syndrome Renal and Urinary Disorders: Laboratory Abnormalities The frequency of laboratory abnormalities (Grades 3-4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group in Studies 105 and 114 is presented in Table 3. Table 3: Laboratory Abnormalities (Grades 3-4) Reported in ≥2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults in the Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat Group in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) 48 weeks Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF 48 weeks Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Laboratory Parameter Abnormality (n=394) (n=377) For subjects with serum amylase >1.5 × upper limit of normal, lipase test was also performed. The frequency of increased lipase (Grades 3-4) occurring in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group (N=44) and atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group (N=34) was 9% and 6%, respectively. a Total Bilirubin (>2.5 × ULN) 65% 56% Creatine Kinase (≥10.0 × ULN) 5% 6% Serum Amylase (>2.0 × ULN) a 4% 2% ALT (>5.0 × ULN) 3% 2% AST (>5.0 × ULN) 3% 2% GGT (>5.0 × ULN) 2% 1% Urine Glucose (Glycosuria ≥1000 mg/dL) 3% 1% Urine RBC (Hematuria) (>75 RBC/HPF) 3% 2% Cobicistat, a component of EVOTAZ, has been shown to increase serum creatinine and decrease estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function . In Studies 105 and 114, increases in serum creatinine and decreases in estimated creatinine clearance occurred early in treatment in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group after which they stabilized. The mean (± SD) change in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) by Cockcroft-Gault method after 48 weeks of treatment was −13.4 ± 15.2 mL/min in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group and −9.1 ± 14.7 mL/min in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Increase in Serum Creatinine: [see and ] Warnings and Precautions (5.3) Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) Serum Lipids Changes from baseline in total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides are presented in Table 4. In both groups, mean values for serum lipids remained within the normal range for each laboratory test. The clinical significance of these changes is unknown. Table 4: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Reported in HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults Receiving Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat and Emtricitabine/Tenofovir DF or Atazanavir Coadministered with Ritonavir and Emtricitabine/Tenofovir DF in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Baseline mg/dL Week 48 change from baseline a Baseline mg/dL Week 48 change from baseline a The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 values and excludes subjects receiving an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor drug. a Total Cholesterol (fasted) 164 [N=307] +4 [N=307] 165 [N=299] +8 [N=299] HDL-cholesterol (fasted) 44 [N=306] +3 [N=306] 43 [N=299] +3 [N=299] LDL-cholesterol (fasted) 102 [N=307] +5 [N=307] 103 [N=300] +7 [N=300] Triglycerides (fasted) 128 [N=307] +15 [N=307] 131 [N=299] +29 [N=299] 6.2 Postmarketing Experience See the full prescribing information for atazanavir for postmarketing information on atazanavir."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS PR interval prolongation may occur in some patients. Consider ECG monitoring in patients with preexisting conduction system disease or when administered with other drugs that may prolong the PR interval. , , , , • Cardiac conduction abnormalities: (5.1 6.2 7.3 12.2 17) Discontinue if severe rash develops. , , • Severe Skin Reactions: (5.2 6.2 17) Assess creatinine clearance (CLcr) before initiating treatment. Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. • (5.3) When cobicistat, a component of EVOTAZ, is used in combination with a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF)-containing regimen, cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome have been reported. • (5.4) When used with tenofovir DF, assess urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and monitor CLcr, urine glucose, and urine protein. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients with or at risk for renal impairment. Coadministration with tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients with CLcr below 70 mL/min or in patients also receiving a nephrotoxic agent. • (5.4) have been reported. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation. , • Nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis (5.5 6.2) Patients with hepatitis B or C coinfection are at risk of increased transaminases or hepatic decompensation. Monitor hepatic laboratory tests prior to therapy and during treatment. , , • Hepatotoxicity: (2.4 5.6 8.7) The concomitant use of EVOTAZ and certain other medications may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. ( , • 5.7 7.3) EVOTAZ is not recommended for use with atazanavir or cobicistat, with ritonavir or products containing ritonavir, or in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require CYP3A inhibition to achieve adequate exposures (e.g., other protease inhibitors and elvitegravir). • Antiretrovirals that are not recommended: (5.8) Most patients experience asymptomatic increases in indirect bilirubin, which is reversible upon discontinuation. If a concomitant transaminase increase occurs, evaluate for alternative etiologies. , • Hyperbilirubinemia: (5.9 6.1) Patients receiving EVOTAZ may develop immune reconstitution syndrome , new onset or exacerbations of diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia , , and redistribution/accumulation of body fat . • (5.10) (5.11 6.2) (5.12) Spontaneous bleeding may occur and additional factor VIII may be required. • Hemophilia: (5.13) 5.1 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities Atazanavir prolongs the PR interval of the electrocardiogram in some patients. In healthy volunteers and in patients, abnormalities in atrioventricular (AV) conduction were asymptomatic and generally limited to first-degree AV block. There have been reports of second-degree AV block and other conduction abnormalities . In clinical trials of atazanavir that included electrocardiograms, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed in 6% of atazanavir-treated patients (n=920) and 5% of patients (n=118) treated with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir. Because of limited clinical experience in patients with preexisting conduction system disease (e.g., marked first-degree AV block or second- or third-degree AV block), consider ECG monitoring in these patients. [see and ] Adverse Reactions (6.2) Overdosage (10) [See .] Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) 5.2 Severe Skin Reactions Cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic skin eruptions, including drug rash, eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome, have been reported in patients receiving atazanavir. EVOTAZ should be discontinued if severe rash develops. [See and .] Contraindications (4) Adverse Reactions (6.1) Mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions have also been reported in atazanavir clinical trials. These reactions had a median time to onset of 7.3 weeks and median duration of 1.4 weeks and generally did not result in treatment discontinuation. 5.3 Effects on Serum Creatinine Cobicistat decreases estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function. This effect should be considered when interpreting changes in estimated creatinine clearance in patients initiating EVOTAZ, particularly in patients with medical conditions or receiving drugs needing monitoring with estimated creatinine clearance. Prior to initiating therapy with EVOTAZ, assess estimated creatinine clearance . Dosage recommendations are not available for drugs that require dosage adjustments in cobicistat-treated patients with renal impairment . Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. [see ] Dosage and Administration (2.2) [see , , and ] Adverse Reactions (6.1) Drug Interactions (7.3) Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) Although cobicistat may cause modest increases in serum creatinine and modest declines in estimated creatinine clearance without affecting renal glomerular function, patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg/dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety. 5.4 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment When Used with Tenofovir DF Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome, has been reported when cobicistat was used in an antiretroviral regimen that contained tenofovir DF. Therefore, coadministration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients who have an estimated creatinine clearance below 70 mL/min . [see ] Dosage and Administration (2.3) When EVOTAZ is used with tenofovir DF, document urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and perform routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein during treatment. • Measure serum phosphorus in patients at risk for renal impairment. • Coadministration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF in combination with concomitant or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent is not recommended. • In the clinical trials over 48 weeks (N=771), six (1.5%) subjects treated with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and tenofovir DF discontinued study drug due to a renal adverse event, five of which had laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy. None of the five subjects had renal impairment at baseline (e.g., estimated creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min). The laboratory findings in these five subjects with evidence of proximal tubulopathy improved but did not completely resolve in all subjects upon discontinuation of cobicistat coadministered with atazanavir and tenofovir DF. Renal replacement therapy was not required in any subject. 5.5 Nephrolithiasis and Cholelithiasis Cases of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving atazanavir therapy. Some patients required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. Because these events were reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made. If signs or symptoms of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be considered. [See , .] Adverse Reactions (6.1 6.2) 5.6 Hepatotoxicity Patients with underlying hepatitis B or C viral infections or marked elevations in transaminases may be at increased risk for developing further transaminase elevations or hepatic decompensation. In these patients, hepatic laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with EVOTAZ and during treatment. [See and .] Dosage and Administration (2.4) Use in Specific Populations (8.7) 5.7 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions or Loss of Virologic Response Due to Drug Interactions Initiation of EVOTAZ, a CYP3A inhibitor, in patients receiving medications metabolized by CYP3A or initiation of medications metabolized by CYP3A in patients already receiving EVOTAZ, may increase plasma concentrations of medications metabolized by CYP3A. Initiation of medications that inhibit or induce CYP3A may increase or decrease concentrations of EVOTAZ, respectively. These interactions may lead to: • clinically significant adverse reactions, potentially leading to severe, life threatening, or fatal events from greater exposures of concomitant medications. • clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of EVOTAZ. • loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and possible development of resistance. See Table 5 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations [see ]. Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during EVOTAZ therapy; review concomitant medications during EVOTAZ therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant medications [see and ]. Drug Interactions (7) Contraindications (4) Drug Interactions (7) When used with concomitant medications, EVOTAZ may result in different drug interactions than those observed or expected with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir. Complex or unknown mechanisms of drug interactions preclude extrapolation of drug interactions with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to certain EVOTAZ interactions . [see , and ] Drug Interactions (7) Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) 5.8 Antiretrovirals that are Not Recommended EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require CYP3A inhibition to achieve adequate exposures (e.g., other HIV protease inhibitors or elvitegravir) because dosing recommendations for such combinations have not been established and coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of the antiretroviral agents, leading to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with products containing the individual components of EVOTAZ (atazanavir or cobicistat). EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with ritonavir or products containing ritonavir due to similar effects of cobicistat and ritonavir on CYP3A. See for additional recommendations on use with other antiretroviral agents. Drug Interactions (7) 5.9 Hyperbilirubinemia Most patients taking atazanavir experience asymptomatic elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT). This hyperbilirubinemia is reversible upon discontinuation of atazanavir. Hepatic transaminase elevations that occur with hyperbilirubinemia should be evaluated for alternative etiologies. No long-term safety data are available for patients experiencing persistent elevations in total bilirubin greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Alternative antiretroviral therapy to EVOTAZ may be considered if jaundice or scleral icterus associated with bilirubin elevations presents cosmetic concerns for patients. [See .] Adverse Reactions (6.2) 5.10 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including atazanavir, a component of EVOTAZ. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as infection, cytomegalovirus, pneumonia, or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Mycobacterium avium Pneumocystis jiroveci Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.11 Diabetes Mellitus/Hyperglycemia New-onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving protease inhibitor therapy. Some patients required either initiation or dose adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents for treatment of these events. In some cases, diabetic ketoacidosis has occurred. In those patients who discontinued protease inhibitor therapy, hyperglycemia persisted in some cases. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made and a causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. 5.12 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and “cushingoid appearance” have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.13 Hemophilia There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin hematomas and hemarthrosis, in patients with hemophilia type A and B treated with protease inhibitors. In some patients additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or reintroduced. A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Cobicistat+AND+Tablets&limit=1&skip=4
Page 4 of 8
        "generic_name": [
          "ELVITEGRAVIR, COBICISTAT, EMTRICITABINE, AND TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Stribild"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See also Contraindications (4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3). STRIBILD is a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection; therefore, STRIBILD should not be administered with other antiretroviral medications for treatment of HIV-1 infection. (5.4, 7.1) STRIBILD can alter the concentration of drugs metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6. Drugs that induce CYP3A can alter the concentrations of one or more components of STRIBILD. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug-drug interactions. (4, 7.2, 7.3, 12.3) 7.1 Other Antiretroviral Medications STRIBILD is a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection; therefore, STRIBILD should not be administered with other antiretroviral medications for treatment of HIV-1 infection. Complete information regarding potential drug-drug interactions with other antiretroviral medications is not provided. 7.2 Potential for STRIBILD to Affect Other Drugs Cobicistat, a component of STRIBILD, is an inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6 and an inhibitor of the following transporters: P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1, and OATP1B3. Thus, coadministration of STRIBILD with drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6, or are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, or OATP1B3, may result in increased plasma concentrations of such drugs. Elvitegravir is a modest inducer of CYP2C9 and may decrease the plasma concentrations of CYP2C9 substrates. 7.3 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect One or More Components of STRIBILD Elvitegravir and cobicistat, components of STRIBILD, are metabolized by CYP3A. Cobicistat is also metabolized, to a minor extent, by CYP2D6. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity are expected to increase the clearance of elvitegravir and cobicistat, resulting in decreased plasma concentration of cobicistat and elvitegravir, which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect of STRIBILD and development of resistance (See Table 6). Coadministration of STRIBILD with other drugs that inhibit CYP3A may decrease the clearance and increase the plasma concentration of cobicistat (See Table 6). 7.4 Drugs Affecting Renal Function Because emtricitabine and tenofovir, components of STRIBILD, are primarily excreted by the kidneys by a combination of glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion, coadministration of STRIBILD with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion may increase concentrations of emtricitabine, tenofovir, and other renally eliminated drugs and this may increase the risk of adverse reactions. Some examples of drugs that are eliminated by active tubular secretion include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g., gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. 7.5 Established and Other Potentially Significant Interactions Table 6 provides a listing of established or potentially clinically significant drug interactions. The drug interactions described are based on studies conducted with either STRIBILD or the components of STRIBILD (elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, and tenofovir DF) as individual agents and/or in combination, or are predicted drug interactions that may occur with STRIBILD [for magnitude of interaction, See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. The table includes potentially significant interactions but is not all inclusive. Table 6 Established and Other Potentially SignificantThis table is not all inclusive. Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration ↑=Increase, ↓=Decrease, ⇔=No Effect Clinical Comment Acid Reducing Agents: AntacidsIndicates that a drug-drug interaction trial was conducted. e.g., aluminum and magnesium hydroxide ↓ elvitegravir Separate STRIBILD and antacid administration by at least 2 hours. Antiarrhythmics: e.g., amiodarone bepridil digoxin disopyramide flecainide systemic lidocaine mexiletine propafenone quinidine ↑ antiarrhythmics ↑ digoxin Therapeutic concentration monitoring, if available, is recommended for antiarrhythmics when coadministered with STRIBILD. Antibacterials: clarithromycin ↑ clarithromycin ↑ cobicistat Patients with CLcr greater than or equal to 60 mL/minute: No dose adjustment of clarithromycin is required. Patients with CLcr between 50 mL/minute and 60 mL/minute: The dose of clarithromycin should be reduced by 50%. Anticoagulants: warfarin Effect on warfarin unknown Monitor international normalized ratio (INR) upon coadministration of warfarin with STRIBILD. Anticonvulsants: oxcarbazepine ↓ elvitegravir ↓ cobicistat Alternative anticonvulsants should be considered when STRIBILD is coadministered with oxcarbazepine. clonazepam ethosuximide ↑ clonazepam ↑ ethosuximide Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration of clonazepam or ethosuximide with STRIBILD. Antidepressants: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) e.g., paroxetine Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) e.g., amitriptyline desipramine imipramine nortriptyline bupropion trazodone ↑ SSRIs ↑ TCAs ↑ trazodone Careful dose titration of the antidepressant and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended when coadministered with STRIBILD. Antifungals: itraconazole ketoconazole voriconazole ↑ elvitegravir ↑ cobicistat ↑ itraconazole ↑ ketoconazole ↑ voriconazole When coadministered with STRIBILD, the maximum daily dose of ketoconazole or itraconazole should not exceed 200 mg per day. An assessment of benefit/risk ratio is recommended to justify use of voriconazole with STRIBILD. Anti-gout: colchicine ↑ colchicine STRIBILD is not recommended to be coadministered with colchicine to patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Treatment of gout-flares – coadministration of colchicine in patients receiving STRIBILD: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) × 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course to be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout-flares – coadministration of colchicine in patients receiving STRIBILD: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever – coadministration of colchicine in patients receiving STRIBILD: Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Antimycobacterial: rifabutin rifapentine ↓ elvitegravir ↓ cobicistat Coadministration of STRIBILD with rifabutin or rifapentine is not recommended. Antipsychotics: quetiapine ↑ quetiapine Initiation of STRIBILD in patients taking quetiapine: Consider alternative antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in quetiapine exposure. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the quetiapine dose to 1/6 of the current dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on adverse reaction monitoring. Initiation of quetiapine in patients taking STRIBILD: Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for initial dosing and titration of quetiapine. Beta-Blockers: e.g., metoprolol timolol ↑ beta-blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended and a dose decrease of the beta-blocker may be necessary when these agents are coadministered with STRIBILD. Calcium Channel Blockers: e.g., amlodipine diltiazem felodipine nicardipine nifedipine verapamil ↑ calcium channel blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration of calcium channel blockers with STRIBILD. Corticosteroid: Systemic: dexamethasone ↓ elvitegravir ↓ cobicistat Alternative corticosteroids should be considered. Corticosteroid: Inhaled/Nasal: fluticasone ↑ fluticasone Concomitant use of STRIBILD with inhaled or nasal fluticasone may reduce serum cortisol concentrations. Alternative corticosteroids should be considered, particularly for long-term use. Endothelin Receptor Antagonists: bosentan ↑ bosentan Coadministration of bosentan in patients on STRIBILD: In patients who have been receiving STRIBILD for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Coadministration of STRIBILD in patients on bosentan: Discontinue use of bosentan at least 36 hours prior to initiation of STRIBILD. After at least 10 days following the initiation of STRIBILD, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Hepatitis C Antiviral Agents: ledipasvir/sofosbuvir ↑ tenofovir The safety of increased tenofovir concentrations in the setting of HARVONI® and STRIBILD has not been established. Coadministration is not recommended. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: atorvastatin ↑ atorvastatin Initiate with the lowest starting dose of atorvastatin and titrate carefully while monitoring for safety. Hormonal Contraceptives: norgestimate/ethinyl estradiol ↑ norgestimate ↓ ethinyl estradiol The effects of increases in the concentration of the progestational component norgestimate are not fully known and can include increased risk of insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, acne, and venous thrombosis. The potential risks and benefits associated with coadministration of norgestimate/ethinyl estradiol with STRIBILD should be considered, particularly in women who have risk factors for these events. Coadministration of STRIBILD with other hormonal contraceptives (e.g., contraceptive patch, contraceptive vaginal ring, or injectable contraceptives) or oral contraceptives containing progestogens other than norgestimate has not been studied; therefore, alternative (nonhormonal) methods of contraception can be considered. Immuno-suppressants: e.g., cyclosporine sirolimus tacrolimus ↑ immuno-suppressants Therapeutic monitoring of the immunosuppressive agents is recommended upon coadministration with STRIBILD. Narcotic Analgesics: buprenorphine/ naloxone ↑ buprenorphine ↑ norbuprenorphine ↓ naloxone Patients should be closely monitored for sedation and cognitive effects. Inhaled Beta Agonist: salmeterol ↑ salmeterol Coadministration of salmeterol and STRIBILD is not recommended because it may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Neuroleptics: e.g., perphenazine risperidone thioridazine ↑ neuroleptics A decrease in dose of the neuroleptic may be needed when coadministered with STRIBILD. Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) Inhibitors: sildenafil tadalafil vardenafil ↑ PDE-5 inhibitors Coadministration with STRIBILD may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor associated adverse reactions, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of tadalafil for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Coadministration of tadalafil in patients on STRIBILD: In patients receiving STRIBILD for at least 1 week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase tadalafil dose to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Coadministration of STRIBILD in patients on tadalafil: Avoid use of tadalafil during the initiation of STRIBILD. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting STRIBILD. After at least one week following initiation of STRIBILD, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase tadalafil dose to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: The below PDE-5 inhibitors can be used along with increased monitoring for PDE-5-inhibitor associated adverse events: Sildenafil at a single dose not exceeding 25 mg in 48 hours, or Tadalafil at a single dose not exceeding 10 mg in 72 hours, or Vardenafil at a single dose not exceeding 2.5 mg in 72 hours Sedative/hypnotics: Benzodiazepines: e.g., parenterally administered midazolam clorazepate diazepam estazolam flurazepam buspirone zolpidem ↑ sedatives/hypnotics Coadministration of parenteral midazolam with STRIBILD should be done in a setting that ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. With other sedative/hypnotics, dose reduction may be necessary and clinical monitoring is recommended. 7.6 Drugs without Clinically Significant Interactions with STRIBILD Based on drug interaction studies conducted with the components of STRIBILD, no clinically significant drug interactions have been either observed or are expected when STRIBILD is combined with the following drugs: entecavir, famciclovir, H2 receptor antagonists, methadone, proton pump inhibitors, and ribavirin."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in other sections of the labeling: Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis [See Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Severe Acute Exacerbations of Hepatitis B [See Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Bone Effects of Tenofovir DF [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. Immune Reconstitution Syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. Most common adverse drug reactions to STRIBILD (incidence greater than or equal to 10%, all grades) are nausea and diarrhea. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gilead Sciences, Inc. at 1-800-GILEAD-5 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In HIV-1-Infected Subjects with No Antiretroviral Treatment History The safety assessment of STRIBILD is based on the Week-144 pooled data from 1408 subjects in two randomized, double-blind, active-controlled clinical trials, Study 102 and Study 103, in antiretroviral treatment-naïve HIV-1-infected adult subjects [See Clinical Studies (14)]. A total of 701 subjects received STRIBILD once daily in these two studies. The proportion of subjects who discontinued treatment with STRIBILD, ATRIPLA, or ATV+RTV+TRUVADA due to adverse events, regardless of severity, was 6.0%, 7.4%, and 8.5%, respectively. Table 2 displays the frequency of adverse reactions greater than or equal to 5% of subjects in any treatment arm. Table 2 Adverse ReactionsFrequencies of adverse reactions are based on all treatment-emergent adverse events attributed to study drugs. (All Grades) Reported in ≥5% of Subjects in Any Treatment Arm in Studies 102 and 103 (Week-144 Analysis) STRIBILD N=701 ATRIPLA N=352 ATV+RTV+ TRUVADA N=355 EYE DISORDERS Ocularicterus <1% 0% 13% GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS Diarrhea 12% 11% 17% Flatulence 2% <1% 8% Nausea 16% 9% 14% GENERAL DISORDERS AND ADMINISTRATION SITE CONDITIONS Fatigue 4% 8% 6% HEPATOBILIARY DISORDERS Jaundice 0% <1% 9% NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS Somnolence 1% 7% 1% Headache 7% 4% 6% Dizziness 3% 21% 5% PSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS Insomnia 3% 9% 1% Abnormal dreams 9% 27% 4% SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE DISORDERS RashRash event includes dermatitis, drug eruption, eczema, pruritus, pruritus generalized, rash, rash erythematous, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculo-papular, rash morbilliform, rash papular, rash pruritic, and urticaria. 4% 15% 6% See Warnings and Precautions (5.3) for a discussion of renal adverse reactions from clinical trials experience with STRIBILD. Additional adverse reactions observed with STRIBILD included suicidal ideation and suicide attempt (0.3%), all in subjects with a preexisting history of depression or psychiatric illness. In Virologically Suppressed HIV-1-Infected Subjects No new adverse reactions to STRIBILD through Week 48 were identified in 584 virologically stably suppressed subjects switching to STRIBILD from a regimen containing a RTV-boosted protease inhibitor (PI) or a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI). In a combined analysis of studies 115 and 121, the frequency of adverse reactions (all grades) was 24% in subjects switching to STRIBILD compared to 6% of subjects in either group who stayed on their baseline antiretroviral regimen, RTV-boosted PI+TRUVADA or NNRTI+TRUVADA. Common adverse reactions that occurred in greater than or equal to 2% of subjects switching to STRIBILD were nausea (4%), flatulence (2%), and headache (2%). The proportion of subjects who discontinued treatment with STRIBILD, the RTV-boosted PI, or the NNRTI due to adverse events was 2%, 3%, and 1%, respectively. Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials of the Components of STRIBILD Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: In addition to the adverse reactions observed with STRIBILD, the following adverse reactions occurred in at least 5% of treatment-experienced or treatment-naïve subjects receiving emtricitabine or tenofovir DF with other antiretroviral agents in other clinical trials: depression, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, vomiting, fever, pain, nasopharyngitis, pneumonia, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection, arthralgia, back pain, myalgia, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy (including peripheral neuritis and neuropathy), anxiety, increased cough, and rhinitis. Skin discoloration has been reported with higher frequency among emtricitabine-treated subjects; it was manifested by hyperpigmentation on the palms and/or soles and was generally mild and asymptomatic. The mechanism and clinical significance are unknown. Laboratory Abnormalities The frequency of laboratory abnormalities (Grades 3−4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects receiving STRIBILD in studies 102 and 103 are presented in Table 3. Table 3 Laboratory Abnormalities (Grades 3−4) Reported in ≥2% of Subjects Receiving STRIBILD in Studies 102 and 103 (Week-144 Analysis) Laboratory Parameter AbnormalityFrequencies are based on treatment-emergent laboratory abnormalities. , For subjects with serum amylase >1.5 × upper limit of normal (ULN), lipase test was also performed. The frequency of increased lipase (Grades 3−4) occurring in STRIBILD (N=69), ATRIPLA (N=40), and ATV+RTV+TRUVADA (N=38) was 17%, 15%, and 24%, respectively. STRIBILD N=701 ATRIPLA N=352 ATV+RTV+ TRUVADA N=355 AST (>5.0 × ULN) 3% 6% 6% ALT (>3.0 × ULN) 2% 5% 4% Amylase (>2.0 × ULN) 3% 3% 5% Creatine Kinase (≥10.0 × ULN) 8% 15% 11% Urine RBC (Hematuria) (>75 RBC/HPF) 4% 2% 4% In Study 103, BMD was assessed by DEXA in a nonrandom subset of 120 subjects (STRIBILD group, N=54; ATV+RTV+TRUVADA group, N=66). Mean percentage decreases in BMD from baseline to Week 144 in the STRIBILD group were comparable to that in the ATV+RTV+TRUVADA group at the lumbar spine (−1.43% versus −3.68%, respectively) and at the hip (−2.83% versus −3.77%, respectively). In studies 102 and 103, bone fractures occurred in 27 subjects (3.9%) in the STRIBILD group, 8 subjects (2.3%) in the ATRIPLA group, and 19 subjects (5.4%) in the ATV+RTV+TRUVADA group. These findings were consistent with data from an earlier 144-week trial of treatment-naïve subjects receiving tenofovir DF + lamivudine + efavirenz. Proteinuria (all grades) occurred in 52% of subjects receiving STRIBILD, 41% of subjects receiving ATRIPLA, and 42% of subjects receiving ATV+RTV+TRUVADA. The cobicistat component of STRIBILD has been shown to increase serum creatinine and decrease estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting renal glomerular function. In studies 102 and 103, increases in serum creatinine and decreases in estimated creatinine clearance occurred early in treatment with STRIBILD, after which levels stabilized. Table 4 displays the mean changes in serum creatinine and eGFR levels at Week 144 and the percentage of subjects with elevations in serum creatinine (all grades). Table 4 Change from Baseline in Serum Creatinine and eGFR and Incidence of Elevated Serum Creatinine (All Grades) in Studies 102 and 103 at Week 144 STRIBILD N=701 ATRIPLA N=352 ATV+RTV+ TRUVADA N=355 Serum Creatinine (mg/dL)Mean change ± standard deviation 0.14 (±0.14) 0.01 (±0.12) 0.09 (±0.15) eGFR by Cockcroft-Gault (mL/minute) −14.0 (±16.6) −1.9 (±17.9) −9.8 (±19.4) Subjects with Elevations in Serum Creatinine (All Grades) (%) 12 2 6 Emtricitabine or Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: In addition to the laboratory abnormalities observed with STRIBILD, the following laboratory abnormalities have been previously reported in subjects treated with emtricitabine or tenofovir DF with other antiretroviral agents in other clinical trials: Grade 3 or 4 laboratory abnormalities of ALT (M: greater than 215 U per L; F: greater than 170 U per L), alkaline phosphatase (greater than 550 U per L), bilirubin (greater than 2.5 × ULN), serum glucose (less than 40 or greater than 250 mg per dL), glycosuria (greater than or equal to 3+), neutrophils (less than 750 per mm3), fasting cholesterol (greater than 240 mg per dL), and fasting triglycerides (greater than 750 mg per dL). Serum Lipids: In the clinical trials of STRIBILD, a similar percentage of subjects receiving STRIBILD, ATRIPLA, and ATV+RTV+TRUVADA were on lipid-lowering agents at baseline (12%, 12%, and 13%, respectively). While receiving study drug through Week 144, an additional 11% of STRIBILD subjects were started on lipid-lowering agents, compared to 13% of ATRIPLA and 12% of ATV+RTV+TRUVADA subjects. Changes from baseline in total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides are presented in Table 5. Table 5 Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline at Week 144 in Subjects Receiving STRIBILD or Comparator in Studies 102 and 103 STRIBILD N=701 ATRIPLA N=352 ATV+RTV+TRUVADA N=355 Baseline Week 144 Baseline Week 144 Baseline Week 144 mg/dL ChangeThe change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 144 values. mg/dL Change mg/dL Change Total Cholesterol (fasted) 166 [N=675] +17 [N=535] 161 [N=343] +22 [N=262] 168 [N=337] +16 [N=243] HDL-cholesterol (fasted) 43 [N=675] +7 [N=535] 43 [N=343] +9 [N=262] 42 [N=335] +7 [N=242] LDL-cholesterol (fasted) 100 [N=675] +15 [N=535] 97 [N=343] +19 [N=262] 101 [N=337] +18 [N=242] Triglycerides (fasted) 122 [N=675] +12 [N=535] 121 [N=343] +5 [N=262] 132 [N=337] +22 [N=242] 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of tenofovir DF. Because postmarketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. No additional postmarketing adverse reactions specific for emtricitabine have been identified. Immune System Disorders allergic reaction, including angioedema Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders lactic acidosis, hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders pancreatitis, increased amylase, abdominal pain Hepatobiliary Disorders hepatic steatosis, hepatitis, increased liver enzymes (most commonly AST, ALT, gamma GT) Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders rash Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and which may contribute to fractures), muscular weakness, myopathy Renal and Urinary Disorders acute renal failure, renal failure, acute tubular necrosis, Fanconi syndrome, proximal renal tubulopathy, interstitial nephritis (including acute cases), nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, renal insufficiency, increased creatinine, proteinuria, polyuria General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions asthenia The following adverse reactions, listed under the body system headings above, may occur as a consequence of proximal renal tubulopathy: rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia, hypokalemia, muscular weakness, myopathy, hypophosphatemia."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS New onset or worsening renal impairment: Can include acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome. Assess creatinine clearance (CLcr), urine glucose, and urine protein before initiating treatment with STRIBILD. Monitor CLcr, urine glucose, and urine protein in all patients. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients at risk for renal impairment. Avoid administering STRIBILD with concurrent or recent use of nephrotoxic drugs. (5.3) Avoid coadministration with other antiretroviral products: Do not use with products containing any of the components of STRIBILD (cobicistat, elvitegravir, emtricitabine, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), including ATRIPLA, COMPLERA, EMTRIVA, TRUVADA, TYBOST, VIREAD, or VITEKTA; with drugs containing lamivudine; or with drugs or regimens containing ritonavir. Do not administer in combination with HEPSERA. (5.4) Risk of adverse reactions or loss of virologic response due to drug interactions: The concomitant use of STRIBILD and other drugs may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions, some of which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect of STRIBILD and possible development of resistance; and possible clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of concomitant drugs. (5.5) Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD): Consider monitoring BMD in patients with a history of pathologic fracture or other risk factors of osteoporosis or bone loss. (5.6) Redistribution/accumulation of body fat: Observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. (5.7) Immune reconstitution syndrome: May necessitate further evaluation and treatment. (5.8) 5.1 Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs, including tenofovir DF, a component of STRIBILD, in combination with other antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women. Obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for liver disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Treatment with STRIBILD should be suspended in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). 5.2 Patients Coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV It is recommended that all patients with HIV-1 be tested for the presence of chronic HBV before initiating antiretroviral therapy. STRIBILD is not approved for the treatment of chronic HBV infection, and the safety and efficacy of STRIBILD have not been established in patients coinfected with HBV and HIV-1. Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are coinfected with HBV and HIV-1 and have discontinued emtricitabine or tenofovir DF, two of the components of STRIBILD. In some patients infected with HBV and treated with EMTRIVA®, the exacerbations of hepatitis B were associated with liver decompensation and liver failure. Patients who are coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV should be closely monitored with both clinical and laboratory follow-up for at least several months after stopping treatment with STRIBILD. If appropriate, initiation of antihepatitis B therapy may be warranted. 5.3 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome (renal tubular injury with severe hypophosphatemia), has been reported with the use of tenofovir DF, a component of STRIBILD, and with the use of STRIBILD [See Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. In the clinical trials of STRIBILD over 144 weeks, 13 (1.9%) subjects in the STRIBILD group (N=701), 8 (2.3%) subjects in the atazanavir (ATV) + ritonavir (RTV) + TRUVADA® (emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir DF 300 mg) group (N=355), and no subjects in the ATRIPLA® (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir DF 300 mg) group (N=352) discontinued study drug due to a renal adverse reaction. Of these discontinuations, 8 in the STRIBILD group and 1 in the ATV+RTV+TRUVADA group occurred during the first 48 weeks. Four (0.6%) subjects who received STRIBILD developed laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubular dysfunction, leading to discontinuation of STRIBILD during the first 48 weeks of treatment. Two of the four subjects had renal impairment (i.e., estimated creatinine clearance less than 70 mL per minute) at baseline. The laboratory findings in these 4 subjects improved but did not completely resolve in all subjects upon discontinuation of STRIBILD. Renal replacement therapy was not required for these subjects. One (0.3%) subject who received ATV+RTV+TRUVADA developed laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubular dysfunction, leading to discontinuation of ATV+RTV+TRUVADA after Week 96. STRIBILD should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent (e.g., high-dose or multiple nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [NSAIDs]) [See Drug Interactions (7.4)]. Cases of acute renal failure after initiation of high-dose or multiple NSAIDs have been reported in HIV-infected patients with risk factors for renal dysfunction who appeared stable on tenofovir DF. Some patients required hospitalization and renal replacement therapy. Alternatives to NSAIDs should be considered, if needed, in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. Persistent or worsening bone pain, pain in extremities, fractures, and/or muscular pain or weakness may be manifestations of proximal renal tubulopathy and should prompt an evaluation of renal function in at-risk patients. Estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein should be documented in all patients prior to initiating therapy. Initiation of STRIBILD in patients with estimated creatinine clearance below 70 mL per minute is not recommended. Routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein should be performed during STRIBILD therapy in all patients. Additionally, serum phosphorus should be measured in patients at risk for renal impairment. Although cobicistat (a component of STRIBILD) may cause modest increases in serum creatinine and modest declines in estimated creatinine clearance without affecting renal glomerular function [See Adverse Reactions (6.1)], patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg per dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety. The emtricitabine and tenofovir DF components of STRIBILD are primarily excreted by the kidney. STRIBILD should be discontinued if estimated creatinine clearance declines below 50 mL per minute as dose interval adjustment required for emtricitabine and tenofovir DF cannot be achieved with the fixed-dose combination tablet. 5.4 Avoid Use with Other Antiretroviral Products STRIBILD is indicated for use as a complete regimen for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, and coadministration with other antiretroviral products is not recommended. STRIBILD is not recommended for coadministration with the following: cobicistat (TYBOST®) elvitegravir (VITEKTA®) products containing emtricitabine or tenofovir DF (ATRIPLA, COMPLERA, EMTRIVA, TRUVADA, VIREAD®) products containing lamivudine (Combivir, Epivir, Epivir-HBV, Epzicom, Triumeq, Trizivir) adefovir dipivoxil (HEPSERA®) products containing ritonavir (Norvir, Kaletra). 5.5 Risk of Adverse Reactions or Loss of Virologic Response Due to Drug Interactions The concomitant use of STRIBILD and other drugs may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions, some of which may lead to [See Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.5)]: Loss of therapeutic effect of STRIBILD and possible development of resistance. Possible clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of concomitant drugs. See Table 6 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations [See Drug Interactions (7.5)]. Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during STRIBILD therapy; review concomitant medications during STRIBILD therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant drugs. 5.6 Bone Effects of Tenofovir DF Bone Mineral Density In clinical trials in HIV-1-infected adults, tenofovir DF (a component of STRIBILD) was associated with slightly greater decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) and increases in biochemical markers of bone metabolism, suggesting increased bone turnover relative to comparators. Serum parathyroid hormone levels and 1.25 Vitamin D levels were also higher in subjects receiving tenofovir DF. For additional information, see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and consult the VIREAD prescribing information. The effects of tenofovir DF-associated changes in BMD and biochemical markers on long-term bone health and future fracture risk are unknown. Assessment of BMD should be considered for HIV-1-infected patients who have a history of pathologic bone fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss. Although the effect of supplementation with calcium and vitamin D was not studied, such supplementation may be beneficial in all patients. If bone abnormalities are suspected, then appropriate consultation should be obtained. Mineralization Defects Cases of osteomalacia associated with proximal renal tubulopathy, manifested as bone pain or pain in extremities and which may contribute to fractures, have been reported in association with the use of tenofovir DF [See Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Arthralgias and muscle pain or weakness have also been reported in cases of proximal renal tubulopathy. Hypophosphatemia and osteomalacia secondary to proximal renal tubulopathy should be considered in patients at risk of renal dysfunction who present with persistent or worsening bone or muscle symptoms while receiving products containing tenofovir DF [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. 5.7 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and \"cushingoid appearance\" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.8 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including STRIBILD. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable and can occur many months after initiation of treatment."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Cobicistat+AND+Tablets&limit=1&skip=5
Page 5 of 8
        "generic_name": [
          "ATAZANAVIR AND COBICISTAT"
        "brand_name": [
          "EVOTAZ"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS See also Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.7) , and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) . Coadministration of EVOTAZ can alter the concentration of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentration of EVOTAZ. The potential drug-drug interactions must be considered prior to and during therapy. (4, 7, 12.3) 7.1 Potential for EVOTAZ to Affect Other Drugs Atazanavir is an inhibitor of CYP3A and UGT1A1 and a weak inhibitor of CYP2C8. Cobicistat is an inhibitor of CYP3A and CYP2D6. The transporters that cobicistat inhibits include P-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with drugs highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. Coadministration of EVOTAZ and drugs primarily metabolized by CYP3A, UGT1A1 and/or CYP2D6 or drugs that are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 and/or OATP1B3 may result in increased plasma concentrations of the other drug that could increase or prolong its therapeutic effects and adverse reactions which may require dose adjustments and/or additional monitoring as shown in Table 5. Use of EVOTAZ is not recommended when coadministered with drugs highly dependent on CYP2C8 for clearance with narrow therapeutic indices (e.g., paclitaxel, repaglinide). [See Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3) .] 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect EVOTAZ Atazanavir and cobicistat are CYP3A4 substrates; therefore, drugs that induce CYP3A4 may decrease atazanavir and cobicistat plasma concentrations and reduce the therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ, leading to development of resistance to atazanavir (see Table 5). Cobicistat is also metabolized by CYP2D6 to a minor extent. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with other drugs that inhibit CYP3A4 may increase the plasma concentrations of cobicistat and atazanavir (see Table 5). Atazanavir solubility decreases as pH increases. Reduced plasma concentrations of atazanavir are expected if proton-pump inhibitors, antacids, buffered medications, or H2-receptor antagonists are administered with EVOTAZ. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1) .] 7.3 Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Drug interaction trials were not conducted for EVOTAZ. Drug interaction trials were conducted with cobicistat in combination with desipramine, digoxin, or efavirenz and with cobicistat coadministered with elvitegravir in combination with other drugs including rosuvastatin and rifabutin. Table 5 provides dosing recommendations as a result of drug interactions with the components of EVOTAZ. These recommendations are based either on observed drug interactions in studies of cobicistat, atazanavir, or atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir or predicted drug interactions based on the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious events or loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ. Table 5: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studiesa or Predicted Interactions Concomitant Drug Class: Specific Drugs Effect on Concentration Clinical Comment a For magnitude of interactions see Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3) . HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Nucleoside and Nucleotide Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs and NtRTIs) didanosine buffered formulations enteric-coated (EC) capsules ↓ atazanavir ↓ didanosine Coadministration of atazanavir with didanosine buffered tablets resulted in a marked decrease in atazanavir exposure (presumably due to the increase in gastric pH caused by buffers in the didanosine tablets). It is recommended that EVOTAZ be given with food 2 hours before or 1 hour after didanosine buffered formulations. Simultaneous administration of didanosine EC and atazanavir with food results in a decrease in didanosine exposure. Thus, EVOTAZ and didanosine EC should be administered at different times. tenofovir disoproxil fumarate ↓ atazanavir ↑ tenofovir Patients receiving EVOTAZ and tenofovir should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) efavirenz ↓ atazanavir ↓ cobicistat ↔ efavirenz Coadministration of EVOTAZ with efavirenz is not recommended because it may result in a loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. etravirine ↓ atazanavir ↓ cobicistat Coadministration of EVOTAZ with etravirine is not recommended because it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to atazanavir. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: CCR5 Antagonist maraviroc ↑ maraviroc When coadministering maraviroc and EVOTAZ, patients should receive maraviroc 150 mg twice daily. HIV Antiretroviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors ritonavir or products containing ritonavir ↑ atazanavir Coadministration of EVOTAZ and ritonavir or ritonavir-containing regimens is not recommended due to similar effects of cobicistat and ritonavir on CYP3A [see Warnings and Precautions (5)]. HCV Antiviral Agents: Protease Inhibitors boceprevir telaprevir simeprevir atazanavir: effects unknown boceprevir: effects unknown telaprevir: effects unknown ↑ simeprevir No drug interaction data are available. Coadministration of EVOTAZ with boceprevir, telaprevir, or simeprevir is not recommended. Other Agents Antacids (please also see H2-receptor antagonists and proton-pump inhibitors below) ↓ atazanavir With concomitant use, administer a minimum of 2 hours apart. Antiarrhythmics: amiodarone, quinidine lidocaine (systemic), disopyramide, flecainide mexiletine, propafenone ↑ antiarrhythmics Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration with antiarrhythmics. digoxin ↑ digoxin When coadministering EVOTAZ with digoxin, titrate the digoxin dose and monitor digoxin concentrations. Antibacterials (macrolide or ketolide antibiotics): clarithromycin erythromycin telithromycin ↑ atazanavir ↑ cobicistat ↑ clarithromycin ↑ erythromycin ↑ telithromycin Consider alternative antibiotics. Anticancer Agents: (e.g., dasatinib, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine) ↑ anticancer agents A decrease in the dosage or an adjustment of the dosing interval of dasatinib or nilotinib may be necessary upon coadministration with EVOTAZ. Consult the dasatinib and nilotinib full prescribing information for dosing instructions. For vincristine and vinblastine, monitor for hematologic or gastrointestinal side effects. Anticoagulant: apixaban, rivaroxaban ↑ apixaban ↑ rivaroxaban Concomitant use of apixaban or rivaroxaban and EVOTAZ is not recommended. dabigatran etexilate ↑ dabigatran Concomitant use of dabigatran etexilate and EVOTAZ is not recommended in specific renal impairment groups for certain indications. Refer to the dabigatran prescribing information for dosing recommendations for dabigatran etexilate when coadministered with P-gp inhibitors. warfarin warfarin: effect unknown Monitor the International Normalized Ratio (INR) when coadministered with warfarin. Anticonvulsants: Anticonvulsants that induce CYP3A (e.g., carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital) phenytoin, phenobarbital ↓ atazanavir ↓ cobicistat phenobarbital and phenytoin: effects unknown Consider alternative anticonvulsant or antiretroviral therapy to avoid potential changes in exposures. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for lack or loss of virologic response. Monitoring of phenobarbital or phenytoin concentrations is recommended with coadministration. Anticonvulsants that are metabolized by CYP3A (e.g., clonazepam, carbamazepine) ↑ clonazepam ↑ carbamazepine Clinical monitoring of anticonvulsants is recommended with EVOTAZ coadministration. Other anticonvulsants (e.g., lamotrigine) lamotrigine: effects unknown Monitoring of lamotrigine concentrations is recommended with EVOTAZ coadministration. Antidepressants: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) (e.g., paroxetine) Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) (e.g., amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline) Other Antidepressants (e.g., trazodone) SSRIs: effects unknown ↑ TCAs ↑ trazodone When coadministering with SSRIs, TCAs, or trazodone, careful dose titration of the antidepressant to the desired effect, using the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose, and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended. Antifungals: ketoconazole, itraconazole ↑ atazanavir ↑ cobicistat ↑ ketoconazole ↑ itraconazole Specific dosing recommendations are not available for coadministration of EVOTAZ with either itraconazole or ketoconazole. voriconazole effects unknown Coadministration with voriconazole is not recommended unless the benefit/risk assessment justifies the use of voriconazole. Antigout: colchicine ↑ colchicine The coadministration of EVOTAZ with colchicine in patients with renal or hepatic impairment is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. Recommended dosage of colchicine when administered with EVOTAZ: Treatment of gout flares: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) for 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course should be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF): Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Antimycobacterials: rifabutin atazanavir: effect unknown cobicistat: effect unknown ↑ rifabutin A rifabutin dose reduction of up to 75% (e.g., 150 mg every other day or 3 times per week) is recommended. Increased monitoring for rifabutin-associated adverse reactions, including neutropenia and uveitis, is warranted. Antipsychotics: quetiapine ↑ quetiapine Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking quetiapine: Consider alternative antiretroviral therapy to avoid increases in quetiapine exposures. If coadministration is necessary, reduce the quetiapine dose to 1/6 of the current dose and monitor for quetiapine-associated adverse reactions. Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for recommendations on adverse reaction monitoring. Initiation of quetiapine in patients taking EVOTAZ: Refer to the quetiapine prescribing information for initial dosing and titration of quetiapine. Beta-Blockers: (e.g., metoprolol, carvedilol, timolol) ↔ atazanavir ↑ beta-blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended when beta-blockers that are metabolized by CYP2D6 are coadministered with EVOTAZ. Calcium channel blockers: (e.g., amlodipine, diltiazem, felodipine, nifedipine, and verapamil) ↑ calcium channel blocker Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A. ECG monitoring is recommended. Corticosteroids (systemic): dexamethasone and other corticosteroids ↓ atazanavir ↓ cobicistat ↑ corticosteroids Concomitant use with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids that induce CYP3A may result in loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and development of resistance to atazanavir. Alternative corticosteroids should be considered. Coadministration with corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A, particularly for long-term use, may increase the risk for development of systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Consider the potential benefit of treatment versus the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. Endothelin receptor antagonists: bosentan ↓ atazanavir ↓ cobicistat ↑ bosentan Initiation of bosentan in patients taking EVOTAZ: For patients who have been receiving EVOTAZ for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking bosentan: Discontinue bosentan at least 36 hours before starting EVOTAZ. After at least 10 days following initiation of EVOTAZ, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based on individual tolerability. Switching from atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to EVOTAZ: Maintain bosentan dose. H2‑Receptor antagonists (H2RA): (e.g., famotidine) ↓ atazanavir Coadministration of EVOTAZ with tenofovir DF and an H2RA in treatment-experienced patients is not recommended. Administer EVOTAZ either at the same time or at a minimum of 10 hours after a dose of the H2RA. The dose of the H2RA should not exceed a dose comparable to famotidine 40 mg twice daily in treatment-naive patients or 20 mg twice daily in treatment-experienced patients. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: atorvastatin, fluvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin ↑ HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors For HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are not contraindicated with EVOTAZ, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate while monitoring for safety [see Contraindications (4)]. Rosuvastatin dose should not exceed 10 mg/day. Hormonal contraceptives: (e.g., progestin/estrogen) progestin and estrogen: effects unknown No data are available to make recommendations on the coadministration of EVOTAZ and oral or other hormonal contraceptives. Alternative nonhormonal forms of contraception should be considered. Immunosuppressants: (e.g., cyclosporine, everolimus, sirolimus, tacrolimus) ↑ immunosuppressants Therapeutic concentration monitoring is recommended for these immunosuppressants when coadministered with EVOTAZ. Inhaled beta-agonist: salmeterol ↑ salmeterol Coadministration with salmeterol is not recommended due to an increased risk of cardiovascular adverse reactions associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Inhaled/nasal steroids: budesonide, fluticasone and other inhaled or nasal steroids ↑ corticosteroids Coadministration with inhaled or nasal corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risks. Consider alternative corticosteroids, particularly for long-term use. Narcotic analgesics: For treatment of opioid dependence: buprenorphine, naloxone, methadone fentanyl tramadol buprenorphine or buprenorphine/naloxone: effects unknown methadone: effects unknown ↑ fentanyl ↑ tramadol Initiation of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone in patients taking EVOTAZ: Carefully titrate the dose of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone to the desired effect; use the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone: A dose adjustment for buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone may be needed. Monitor clinical signs and symptoms. When EVOTAZ is coadministered with fentanyl, careful monitoring of therapeutic and adverse effects of fentanyl (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended. When EVOTAZ is coadministered with tramadol, a decreased dose of tramadol may be needed. Neuroleptics: (e.g., perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine) ↑ neuroleptics A decrease in the dose of neuroleptics that are metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2D6 may be needed when coadministered with EVOTAZ. Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors: avanafil, sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil ↑ PDE-5 inhibitors Coadministration with avanafil is not recommended because a safe and effective avanafil dosage regimen has not been established. Coadministration with EVOTAZ may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor-associated adverse reactions, including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances, and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Sildenafil when used for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension (PAH) is contraindicated with EVOTAZ [see Contraindications (4)]. Tadalafil: The following dose adjustments are recommended for the use of tadalafil with EVOTAZ: Initiation of tadalafil in patients taking EVOTAZ: oFor patients receiving EVOTAZ for at least one week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Initiation of EVOTAZ in patients taking tadalafil: oAvoid the use of tadalafil when starting EVOTAZ. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours before starting EVOTAZ. At least one week after starting EVOTAZ, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based on individual tolerability. Patients switching from atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to EVOTAZ: oMaintain tadalafil dose. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: Sildenafil: Reduced dosage to 25 mg every 48 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Tadalafil: Reduced dosage to 10 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Vardenafil: Reduced dosage to no more than 2.5 mg every 72 hours with increased monitoring for adverse reactions. Proton-pump inhibitors (PPI): (e.g., omeprazole) ↓ atazanavir In treatment-naive patients, administer EVOTAZ a minimum of 12 hours after administration of the PPI. The dose of the PPI should not exceed a dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg daily. In treatment-experienced patients, coadministration of EVOTAZ with PPI is not recommended. Sedatives/hypnotics: buspirone, diazepam, zolpidem, and parenterally administered midazolam ↑ sedatives/hypnotics Parenterally administered midazolam: Coadministration should be done in a setting which ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dosage reduction for midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. Concomitant use with oral midazolam and triazolam is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4)]. With other sedatives/hypnotics that are CYP3A metabolized, a dose reduction may be necessary and clinical monitoring is recommended. 7.4 Drugs with No Observed or Predicted Interactions with the Components of EVOTAZ Based on known metabolic profiles, clinically significant drug interactions are not expected between EVOTAZ and acetaminophen, atenolol, dapsone, fluconazole, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, or azithromycin. [See Clinical Pharmacology, Table 7 (12.3).]",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling: •cardiac conduction abnormalities [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] •rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] •effects on serum creatinine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] •new onset or worsening renal impairment when used with tenofovir DF [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] •nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] •hyperbilirubinemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] For additional safety information about atazanavir and cobicistat consult the full prescribing information for these individual products. Most common adverse reactions seen with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat (greater than 2%, Grades 2-4) are jaundice, ocular icterus, and nausea. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience in Adults Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of atazanavir and cobicistat coadministered as single agents has been established from a Phase 2 trial, Study 105, and a Phase 3 trial, Study 114. In the pooled analysis, 771 HIV-1 infected, antiretroviral treatment-naive adults received for at least 48 weeks: •atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (N=394) or •atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (N=377). The most common adverse reactions (all Grades) and reported in >10% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group were jaundice (13%), ocular icterus (15%), and nausea (12%); the most common adverse reactions in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group were jaundice (11%), ocular icterus (17%), nausea (11%), and diarrhea (11%). The proportion of subjects who discontinued study treatment due to adverse events, regardless of severity, was 7% in both the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir groups. Table 2 lists the frequency of adverse reactions (Grades 2-4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group in pooled Studies 105 and 114. Table 2: Selected Adverse Reactionsa (Grades 2-4) Reported in ≥2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults in the Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat Group in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (n=394) Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF (n=377) a Frequencies of adverse reactions are based on Grades 2-4 adverse events attributed to study drugs. b Rash events include dermatitis allergic, drug hypersensitivity, pruritus generalized, eosinophilic pustular folliculitis, rash, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculopapular, rash morbilliform, rash papular, and urticaria. Jaundice 5% 3% Rashb 5% 4% Ocular icterus 3% 1% Nausea 2% 2% Nephrolithiasis: Nephrolithiasis has previously been identified in patients receiving atazanavir [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. In the pooled analysis of Studies 105 and 114 through 48 weeks, 8 subjects (2%) receiving atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat developed nephrolithiasis compared with no subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Median time to onset of nephrolithiasis in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group was 24 weeks. Causality in these cases could not be determined with certainty, but the majority of renal stone events were not serious and no subject discontinued study drug. Less Common Adverse Reactions Selected adverse reactions of at least moderate severity (≥ Grade 2) occurring in less than 2% of subjects receiving atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF are listed below. These events have been included because of investigator’s assessment of potential causal relationship and were considered serious or have been reported in more than one subject treated with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat, and reported with greater frequency compared with the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Gastrointestinal Disorders: diarrhea, vomiting, upper abdominal pain General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: fatigue Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders: rhabdomyolysis Nervous System Disorders: headache Psychiatric Disorders: depression, abnormal dreams, insomnia Renal and Urinary Disorders: nephropathy, Fanconi syndrome Laboratory Abnormalities The frequency of laboratory abnormalities (Grades 3-4) occurring in at least 2% of subjects in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group in Studies 105 and 114 is presented in Table 3. Table 3: Laboratory Abnormalities (Grades 3-4) Reported in ≥2% of HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults in the Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat Group in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) 48 weeks Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF 48 weeks Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Laboratory Parameter Abnormality (n=394) (n=377) a For subjects with serum amylase >1.5 × upper limit of normal, lipase test was also performed. The frequency of increased lipase (Grades 3-4) occurring in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group (N=44) and atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group (N=34) was 9% and 6%, respectively. Total Bilirubin (>2.5 × ULN) 65% 56% Creatine Kinase (≥10.0 × ULN) 5% 6% Serum Amylasea (>2.0 × ULN) 4% 2% ALT (>5.0 × ULN) 3% 2% AST (>5.0 × ULN) 3% 2% GGT (>5.0 × ULN) 2% 1% Urine Glucose (Glycosuria ≥1000 mg/dL) 3% 1% Urine RBC (Hematuria) (>75 RBC/HPF) 3% 2% Increase in Serum Creatinine: Cobicistat, a component of EVOTAZ, has been shown to increase serum creatinine and decrease estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. In Studies 105 and 114, increases in serum creatinine and decreases in estimated creatinine clearance occurred early in treatment in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group after which they stabilized. The mean (± SD) change in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) by Cockcroft-Gault method after 48 weeks of treatment was −13.4 ± 15.2 mL/min in the atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat group and −9.1 ± 14.7 mL/min in the atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir group. Serum Lipids Changes from baseline in total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides are presented in Table 4. In both groups, mean values for serum lipids remained within the normal range for each laboratory test. The clinical significance of these changes is unknown. Table 4: Lipid Values, Mean Change from Baseline, Reported in HIV-1 Infected Treatment-Naive Adults Receiving Atazanavir Coadministered with Cobicistat and Emtricitabine/Tenofovir DF or Atazanavir Coadministered with Ritonavir and Emtricitabine/Tenofovir DF in Studies 105 and 114 (Week 48 pooled analysis) Atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir and emtricitabine/tenofovir DF Baseline mg/dL Week 48 change from baselinea Baseline mg/dL Week 48 change from baselinea a The change from baseline is the mean of within-patient changes from baseline for patients with both baseline and Week 48 values and excludes subjects receiving an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor drug. Total Cholesterol (fasted) 164 [N=307] +4 [N=307] 165 [N=299] +8 [N=299] HDL-cholesterol (fasted) 44 [N=306] +3 [N=306] 43 [N=299] +3 [N=299] LDL-cholesterol (fasted) 102 [N=307] +5 [N=307] 103 [N=300] +7 [N=300] Triglycerides (fasted) 128 [N=307] +15 [N=307] 131 [N=299] +29 [N=299] 6.2 Postmarketing Experience See the full prescribing information for atazanavir for postmarketing information on atazanavir."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Cardiac conduction abnormalities: PR interval prolongation may occur in some patients. Consider ECG monitoring in patients with preexisting conduction system disease or when administered with other drugs that may prolong the PR interval. (5.1, 6.2, 7.3, 12.2, 17) • Rash: Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.2, 6.2, 17) •Assess creatinine clearance (CLcr) before initiating treatment. Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. (5.3) •When cobicistat, a component of EVOTAZ, is used in combination with a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF)-containing regimen, cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome have been reported. (5.4) •When used with tenofovir DF, assess urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and monitor CLcr, urine glucose, and urine protein. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients with or at risk for renal impairment. Coadministration with tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients with CLcr below 70 mL/min or in patients also receiving a nephrotoxic agent. (5.4) • Nephrolithiasis and cholelithiasis have been reported. Consider temporary interruption or discontinuation. (5.5, 6.2) • Hepatotoxicity: Patients with hepatitis B or C coinfection are at risk of increased transaminases or hepatic decompensation. Monitor hepatic laboratory tests prior to therapy and during treatment. (2.4, 5.6, 8.7) •The concomitant use of EVOTAZ and certain other medications may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. (5.7, 7.3) • Antiretrovirals that are not recommended: EVOTAZ is not recommended for use with atazanavir or cobicistat, with ritonavir or products containing ritonavir, or in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require CYP3A inhibition to achieve adequate exposures (e.g., other protease inhibitors and elvitegravir). (5.8) • Hyperbilirubinemia: Most patients experience asymptomatic increases in indirect bilirubin, which is reversible upon discontinuation. If a concomitant transaminase increase occurs, evaluate for alternative etiologies. (5.9, 6.1) •Patients receiving EVOTAZ may develop immune reconstitution syndrome (5.10), new onset or exacerbations of diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia (5.11, 6.2), and redistribution/accumulation of body fat (5.12). • Hemophilia: Spontaneous bleeding may occur and additional factor VIII may be required. (5.13) 5.1 Cardiac Conduction Abnormalities Atazanavir prolongs the PR interval of the electrocardiogram in some patients. In healthy volunteers and in patients, abnormalities in atrioventricular (AV) conduction were asymptomatic and generally limited to first-degree AV block. There have been reports of second-degree AV block and other conduction abnormalities [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) and Overdosage (10)]. In clinical trials of atazanavir that included electrocardiograms, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed in 6% of atazanavir-treated patients (n=920) and 5% of patients (n=118) treated with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir. Because of limited clinical experience in patients with preexisting conduction system disease (e.g., marked first-degree AV block or second- or third-degree AV block), consider ECG monitoring in these patients. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.2).] 5.2 Rash Cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic skin eruptions, including drug rash, eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome, have been reported in patients receiving atazanavir. [See Contraindications (4) and Adverse Reactions (6.1).] EVOTAZ should be discontinued if severe rash develops. Mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions have also been reported in atazanavir clinical trials. These reactions had a median time to onset of 7.3 weeks and median duration of 1.4 weeks and generally did not result in treatment discontinuation. 5.3 Effects on Serum Creatinine Cobicistat decreases estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function. This effect should be considered when interpreting changes in estimated creatinine clearance in patients initiating EVOTAZ, particularly in patients with medical conditions or receiving drugs needing monitoring with estimated creatinine clearance. Prior to initiating therapy with EVOTAZ, assess estimated creatinine clearance [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. Dosage recommendations are not available for drugs that require dosage adjustments in cobicistat-treated patients with renal impairment [see Adverse Reactions (6.1), Drug Interactions (7.3), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. Although cobicistat may cause modest increases in serum creatinine and modest declines in estimated creatinine clearance without affecting renal glomerular function, patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg/dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety. 5.4 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment When Used with Tenofovir DF Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome, has been reported when cobicistat was used in an antiretroviral regimen that contained tenofovir DF. Therefore, coadministration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients who have an estimated creatinine clearance below 70 mL/min [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. •When EVOTAZ is used with tenofovir DF, document urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and perform routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein during treatment. •Measure serum phosphorus in patients at risk for renal impairment. •Coadministration of EVOTAZ and tenofovir DF in combination with concomitant or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent is not recommended. In the clinical trials over 48 weeks (N=771), six (1.5%) subjects treated with atazanavir coadministered with cobicistat and tenofovir DF discontinued study drug due to a renal adverse event, five of which had laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy. None of the five subjects had renal impairment at baseline (e.g., estimated creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min). The laboratory findings in these five subjects with evidence of proximal tubulopathy improved but did not completely resolve in all subjects upon discontinuation of cobicistat coadministered with atazanavir and tenofovir DF. Renal replacement therapy was not required in any subject. 5.5 Nephrolithiasis and Cholelithiasis Cases of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving atazanavir therapy. Some patients required hospitalization for additional management and some had complications. Because these events were reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made. If signs or symptoms of nephrolithiasis and/or cholelithiasis occur, temporary interruption or discontinuation of therapy may be considered. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2).] 5.6 Hepatotoxicity Patients with underlying hepatitis B or C viral infections or marked elevations in transaminases may be at increased risk for developing further transaminase elevations or hepatic decompensation. In these patients, hepatic laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with EVOTAZ and during treatment. [See Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Use in Specific Populations (8.7).] 5.7 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions or Loss of Virologic Response Due to Drug Interactions Initiation of EVOTAZ, a CYP3A inhibitor, in patients receiving medications metabolized by CYP3A or initiation of medications metabolized by CYP3A in patients already receiving EVOTAZ, may increase plasma concentrations of medications metabolized by CYP3A. Initiation of medications that inhibit or induce CYP3A may increase or decrease concentrations of EVOTAZ, respectively. These interactions may lead to: • clinically significant adverse reactions, potentially leading to severe, life threatening, or fatal events from greater exposures of concomitant medications. • clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of EVOTAZ. • loss of therapeutic effect of EVOTAZ and possible development of resistance. See Table 5 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during EVOTAZ therapy; review concomitant medications during EVOTAZ therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant medications [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7)]. When used with concomitant medications, EVOTAZ may result in different drug interactions than those observed or expected with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir. Complex or unknown mechanisms of drug interactions preclude extrapolation of drug interactions with atazanavir coadministered with ritonavir to certain EVOTAZ interactions [see Drug Interactions (7), and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.8 Antiretrovirals that are Not Recommended EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require CYP3A inhibition to achieve adequate exposures (e.g., other HIV protease inhibitors or elvitegravir) because dosing recommendations for such combinations have not been established and coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of the antiretroviral agents, leading to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with products containing the individual components of EVOTAZ (atazanavir or cobicistat). EVOTAZ is not recommended in combination with ritonavir or products containing ritonavir due to similar effects of cobicistat and ritonavir on CYP3A. See Drug Interactions (7) for additional recommendations on use with other antiretroviral agents. 5.9 Hyperbilirubinemia Most patients taking atazanavir experience asymptomatic elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT). This hyperbilirubinemia is reversible upon discontinuation of atazanavir. Hepatic transaminase elevations that occur with hyperbilirubinemia should be evaluated for alternative etiologies. No long-term safety data are available for patients experiencing persistent elevations in total bilirubin greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Alternative antiretroviral therapy to EVOTAZ may be considered if jaundice or scleral icterus associated with bilirubin elevations presents cosmetic concerns for patients. [See Adverse Reactions (6.2).] 5.10 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including atazanavir, a component of EVOTAZ. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.11 Diabetes Mellitus/Hyperglycemia New-onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV-infected patients receiving protease inhibitor therapy. Some patients required either initiation or dose adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents for treatment of these events. In some cases, diabetic ketoacidosis has occurred. In those patients who discontinued protease inhibitor therapy, hyperglycemia persisted in some cases. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made and a causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established. 5.12 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and “cushingoid appearance” have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.13 Hemophilia There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin hematomas and hemarthrosis, in patients with hemophilia type A and B treated with protease inhibitors. In some patients additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or reintroduced. A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these events has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Cobicistat+AND+Tablets&limit=1&skip=6
Page 6 of 8
        "generic_name": [
          "DARUNAVIR ETHANOLATE AND COBICISTAT"
        "brand_name": [
          "PREZCOBIX"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction trials have been performed with PREZCOBIX or with darunavir coadministered with cobicistat as single entities. Drug interaction trials have been conducted with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir and with cobicistat alone. Coadministration of PREZCOBIX with other drugs can alter the concentration of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentrations of darunavir or cobicistat. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. ( , , , ). 4 5.6 7 12.3 7.1 Potential for PREZCOBIX to Affect Other Drugs When evaluated separately, darunavir and cobicistat both inhibited CYP3A and CYP2D6. Cobicistat inhibits the following transporters: p-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Therefore, coadministration of PREZCOBIX with drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 or are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 or OATP1B3 may result in increased plasma concentrations of such drugs, which could increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and can be associated with adverse events (see ). Based on data, cobicistat is not expected to induce CYP1A2 or CYP2B6 and based on data, cobicistat is not expected to induce MDR1 or, in general, CYP3A to a clinically significant extent. The induction effect of cobicistat on CYP2C9, CYP2C19, or UGT1A1 is unknown, but is expected to be low based on CYP3A induction data. Table 2 in vitro in vivo in vitro 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect PREZCOBIX Darunavir is metabolized by CYP3A. Cobicistat is metabolized by CYP3A, and to a minor extent, by CYP2D6. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity are expected to increase the clearance of darunavir and cobicistat, resulting in lowered plasma concentrations of darunavir and cobicistat which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Coadministration of PREZCOBIX and other drugs that inhibit CYP3A may result in increased plasma concentrations of darunavir and cobicistat (see ). Table 2 7.3 Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Table 2 provides dosing recommendations for expected clinically relevant interactions with PREZCOBIX. These recommendations are based on either drug interaction trials or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious adverse events or loss of efficacy. Table 2: Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alterations in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Trials or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration of Darunavir, Cobicistat, or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment HIV-1 Antiviral Agents: Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs) didanosine ↔ darunavir ↔ cobicistat ↔ didanosine Didanosine should be administered one hour before or two hours after PREZCOBIX (administered with food). HIV-1 Antiviral Agents: Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) efavirenz, ↓ cobicistat ↓ darunavir Coadministration with efavirenz is not recommended because it may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to darunavir. etravirine, ↓ cobicistat darunavir: effect unknown Coadministration with etravirine is not recommended because it may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to darunavir. neviraprine ↓ cobicistat darunavir: effect unknown Coadministration with nevirapine is not recommended because it may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to darunavir. HIV-1 Antiviral Agents: CCR5 co-receptor antagonists maraviroc ↑ maraviroc Maraviroc is a substrate of CYP3A. When coadministered with PREZCOBIX, patients should receive maraviroc 150 mg twice daily. Other Agents e.g. amiodarone, disopyramide, flecainide, lidocaine (systemic), mexiletine, propafenone, quinidine, Antiarrhythmics: ↑ antiarrhythmics Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration with antiarrhythmics. digoxin ↑ digoxin When coadministering with digoxin, titrate the digoxin dose and monitor digoxin concentrations. clarithromycin, erythromycin, telithromycin Antibacterial Agents ↑ darunavir ↑ cobicistat ↑ antibacterial Consider alternative antibiotics with concomitant use of PREZCOBIX. dasatinib, nilotinib, Anticancer Agents: ↑ anticancer agent A decrease in the dosage or an adjustment of the dosing interval of dasatinib or nilotinib may be necessary when coadministered with PREZCOBIX. Consult the dasatinib and nilotinib prescribing information for dosing instructions. vinblastine, vincristine For vincristine and vinblastine, consider temporarily withholding the cobicistat-containing antiretroviral regimen in patients who develop significant hematologic or gastrointestinal side effects when PREZCOBIX is administered concurrently with vincristine or vinblastine. If the antiretroviral regimen must be withheld for a prolonged period, consider initiating a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A or P-gp inhibitor. apixaban, Anticoagulants: ↑ anticoagulant Concomitant use of apixaban is not recommended. dabigatran etexilate, Concomitant use with dabigatran etexilate is not recommended in specific renal impairment groups (depending on the indication). Please see the dabigatran US prescribing information for specific recommendations. rivaroxaban, Coadministration with rivaroxaban is not recommended. warfarin warfarin: effect unknown Monitor the international normalized ratio (INR) when coadministering with warfarin. e.g. carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin Anticonvulsants that induce CYP3A: ↓ cobicistat darunavir effect unknown Consider alternative anticonvulsant or antiretroviral therapy to avoid potential changes in exposures. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for lack or loss of virologic response. phenobarbital, phenytoin phenobarbital: effect unknown phenytoin: effect unknown Monitor phenobarbital or phenytoin concentrations. e.g. clonazepam, carbamazepine Anticonvulsants that are metabolized by CYP3A: ↑ carbamazepine ↑ clonazepam Clinical monitoring is recommended. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs): e.g. paroxetine, sertraline, Antidepressants: SSRIs: effects unknown ↑ TCAs When coadministering with SSRIs, TCAs, or trazodone, careful dose titration of the antidepressant to the desired effect, including using the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose, and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended. Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): e.g. amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline Other antidepressants: trazodone ↑ trazodone itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, Antifungals: ↑ darunavir ↑ cobicistat Monitor for increased darunavir or cobicistat adverse reactions. ↑ itraconazole ↑ ketoconazole ↔ posaconazole (not studied) Specific dosing recommendations are not available for coadministration with itraconazole or ketoconazole. Monitor for increased itraconazole or ketoconazole adverse reactions. voriconazole Voriconazole: effects unknown Coadministration with voriconazole is not recommended unless benefit/risk assessment justifies the use of voriconazole. colchicine Anti-gout: ↑ colchicine Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Coadministration with colchicine is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment [ ]. Treatment of gout flares – coadministration of colchicine: 0.6 mg (1 tablet) × 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course to be repeated no earlier than 3 days. - Prophylaxis of gout flares – coadministration of colchicine: If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. - Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever - coadministration of colchicine: see Contraindications (4) artemether/lumefantrine Antimalarial: artemether: effect unknown lumefantrine: effect unknown Monitor for a potential decrease of antimalarial efficacy or potential QT prolongation. rifabutin Antimycobacterials: ↑ rifabutin cobicistat: effects unknown darunavir: effects unknown When used in combination with PREZCOBIX, the recommended dose of rifabutin is 150 mg every other day. Monitor for rifabutin-associated adverse reactions including neutropenia and uveitis. rifapentine ↓ darunavir Coadministration with rifapentine is not recommended. e.g. carvedilol, metoprolol, timolol β-Blockers: ↑ beta-blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with beta-blockers that are metabolized by CYP2D6. e.g. amlodipine, diltiazem, felodipine, Calcium Channel Blockers: ↑ calcium channel blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A. nifedipine, verapamil e.g. budesonide, fluticasone Corticosteroids (inhaled/nasal) metabolized by CYP3A: ↑ corticosteroid Coadministration with inhaled or nasal fluticasone or other corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A may result in reduced serum cortisol concentrations. Alternative corticosteroids should be considered, particularly for long-term use. dexamethasone Corticosteroid systemic: e.g. ↓ darunavir ↓ cobicistat ↑ corticosteroids Coadministration with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids that induce CYP3A may result in loss of therapeutic effect of and development of resistance to darunavir. Consider alternative corticosteroids. e.g. budesonide, prednisolone Corticosteroids (systemic) metabolized by CYP3A: ↑ corticosteroid Coadministration with corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A, particularly for long-term use, may increase the risk for development of systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression. Consider the potential benefit of treatment versus the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. bosentan Endothelin receptor antagonists: ↓ darunavir ↓ cobicistat ↑ bosentan : In patients who have been receiving PREZCOBIX for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Discontinue use of bosentan at least 36 hours prior to initiation of PREZCOBIX. After at least 10 days following the initiation of PREZCOBIX, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Maintain bosentan dose. Initiation of bosentan in patients taking PREZCOBIX Initiation of PREZCOBIX in patients on bosentan: Switching from darunavir coadministered with ritonavir to PREZCOBIX in patients on bosentan: NS3-4A protease inhibitors: boceprevir, telaprevir, simeprevir Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) darunavir: effects unknown boceprevir: effects unknown telaprevir: effects unknown ↑ simeprevir No drug interaction data are available. Coadministration with boceprevir, simeprevir, or telaprevir is not recommended. e.g. atorvastatin, fluvastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: ↑ atorvastatin ↑ fluvastatin ↑ pravastatin ↑ rosuvastatin pitavastatin: effect unknown For atorvastatin, fluvastatin, pitavastatin pravastatin, and rosuvastatin, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate while monitoring for safety [see ]. Contraindications (4) progestin/estrogen Hormonal Contraceptives: progestin: effects unknown estrogen: effects unknown No data are available to make recommendations on coadministration with oral or other hormonal contraceptives. Additional or alternative (non-hormonal) forms of contraception should be considered. cyclosporine, sirolimus, tacrolimus Immunosuppressants: ↑ immunosuppressants These immunosuppressant agents are metabolized by CYP3A. Therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended with concomitant use. everolimus Immunosuppressant/neoplastic: Coadministration of everolimus and PREZCOBIX is not recommended. salmeterol Inhaled beta agonist: ↑ salmeterol Coadministration with salmeterol is not recommended and may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. e.g. fentanyl, oxycodone Narcotic Analgesics metabolized by CYP3A: ↑ fentanyl ↑ oxycodone Careful monitoring of therapeutic effects and adverse reactions associated with CYP3A-metabolized narcotic analgesics (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended with coadministration. tramadol ↑ tramadol A dose decrease may be needed for tramadol with concomitant use. buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone, methadone Narcotic Analgesic for Treatment of Opioid Dependence: buprenorphine or buprenorphine/naloxone: effects unknown methadone: effects unknown Carefully titrate the dose of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone to the desired effect; use the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose. A dose adjustment for buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone may be needed. Monitor clinical signs and symptoms. Initiation of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone in patients taking PREZCOBIX: Initiation of PREZCOBIX in patients taking buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone: e.g. perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine Neuroleptics: ↑ neuroleptics A decrease in the dose of neuroleptics that are CYP3A- or CYP2D6- metabolized may be needed when coadministered with PREZCOBIX. e.g. avanafil, sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil Phosphodiesterase PDE-5 inhibitors: ↑ PDE-5 inhibitors Coadministration with avanafil is not recommended because a safe and effective avanafil dosage regimen has not been established. Coadministration with PDE-5 inhibitors may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor-associated adverse reactions including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Sildenafil at a single dose not exceeding 25 mg in 48 hours, vardenafil at a single dose not exceeding 2.5 mg dose in 72 hours, or tadalafil at a single dose not exceeding 10 mg dose in 72 hours can be used with increased monitoring for PDE-5 inhibitor-associated adverse reactions. Coadministration with sildenafil is contraindicated [ ]. see Contraindications (4) The following dose adjustments are recommended for use of tadalafil with PREZCOBIX: In patients receiving PREZCOBIX for at least one week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Avoid use of tadalafil during the initiation of PREZCOBIX. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting PREZCOBIX. After at least one week following the initiation of PREZCOBIX, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Initiation of tadalafil in patients taking PREZCOBIX: Initiation of PREZCOBIX in patients taking tadalafil: Patients switching from darunavir coadministered with ritonavir to PREZCOBIX: Maintain tadalafil dose. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: e.g. buspirone, diazepam, estazolam Sedatives/Hypnotics metabolized by CYP3A: ↑ sedatives/hypnotics With concomitant use, titration is recommended with sedatives/hypnotics metabolized by CYP3A and a lower dose of the sedatives/hypnotics should be considered with monitoring for increased and prolonged effects or adverse reactions. parenterally administered midazolam, Coadministration of parenteral midazolam should be done in a setting that ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dose reduction for parenteral midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. zoldipem Coadministration with oral midazolam or triazolam is CONTRAINDICATED . [see ] Contraindications (4.0) Clinically relevant drug-drug interactions are not anticipated with concomitant use of darunavir and cobicistat with rilpivirine, dolutegravir, raltegravir, nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) other than didanosine, or acid modifying medications (antacids, H -receptor antagonists, proton pump inhibitors). 2"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in other sections of the labeling: Hepatotoxicity [ ] see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) Severe skin reactions [ ] see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) Effects on serum creatinine [ ] see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) New onset or worsening renal impairment when used with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [ ] see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) The most common adverse reactions to darunavir, a component of PREZCOBIX (incidence greater than or equal to 5%) of at least moderate severity (greater than or equal to Grade 2) were diarrhea, nausea, rash, headache, abdominal pain, and vomiting. ( ) 6 To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Janssen Products, LP at 1-800-JANSSEN (1-800-526-7736) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. During the darunavir clinical development program, where darunavir was coadministered with ritonavir 100 mg once or twice daily, the most common clinical adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 5%) of at least moderate intensity (greater than or equal to Grade 2) were diarrhea, nausea, rash, headache, abdominal pain, and vomiting. See the darunavir full prescribing information for additional information on adverse reactions reported with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir. See cobicistat full prescribing information for clinical trial information on adverse reactions reported with cobicistat. One single arm clinical trial was conducted with darunavir and cobicistat administered as single entities in 313 HIV-infected subjects. Adverse reactions evaluated through Week 24 did not differ substantially from those reported in clinical trials with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience See the darunavir full prescribing information for postmarketing information."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Drug-induced hepatitis (e.g., acute hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis), liver injury, including some fatalities can occcur with PREZCOBIX. Monitor liver function before and during therapy, especially in patients with underlying chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, or in patients who have pre-treatment elevations of transaminases. ( , ) 5.1 6 Skin reactions ranging from mild to severe, including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, can occur with PREZCOBIX. Discontinue treatment if severe reaction develops. ( , ) 5.2 6 Assess creatinine clearance (CLcr) before initiating treatment. ( ) 5.3 When PREZCOBIX is used in combination with a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF) containing regimen, cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome have been reported. ( ) 5.4 When used with tenofovir DF: Assess urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and monitor CLcr, urine glucose, and urine protein. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients with or at risk for renal impairment. ( ) 5.4 PREZCOBIX is not recommended in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require pharmacokinetic boosting. ( ) 5.6 Monitor in patients with a known sulfonamide allergy. ( ) 5.7 Patients receiving PREZCOBIX may develop new onset or exacerbations of diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia ( ), redistribution/accumulation of body fat ( ), and immune reconstitution syndrome( ). 5.8 5.7 5.9 Patients with hemophilia may develop increased bleeding events. ( ) 5.11 5.1 Hepatotoxicity During the darunavir clinical development program (N=3063), where darunavir was coadministered with ritonavir 100 mg once or twice daily, drug-induced hepatitis (e.g., acute hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis) was reported in 0.5% of subjects. Patients with pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis B or C, have an increased risk for liver function abnormalities including severe hepatic adverse reactions. Post-marketing cases of liver injury, including some fatalities, have also been reported with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir. These have generally occurred in patients with advanced HIV-1 disease taking multiple concomitant medications, having co-morbidities including hepatitis B or C co-infection, and/or developing immune reconstitution syndrome. A causal relationship with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir has not been established. Appropriate laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with PREZCOBIX and patients should be monitored during treatment. Increased AST/ALT monitoring should be considered in patients with underlying chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, or in patients who have pre-treatment elevations of transaminases, especially during the first several months of PREZCOBIX treatment. Evidence of new or worsening liver dysfunction (including clinically significant elevation of liver enzymes and/or symptoms such as fatigue, anorexia, nausea, jaundice, dark urine, liver tenderness, hepatomegaly) in patients on PREZCOBIX should prompt consideration of interruption or discontinuation of treatment. 5.2 Severe Skin Reactions During the darunavir clinical development program (n=3063), where darunavir was coadministered with ritonavir 100 mg once or twice daily, severe skin reactions, accompanied by fever and/or elevations of transaminases in some cases, was reported in 0.4% of subjects. Stevens-Johnson Syndrome was rarely (less than 0.1%) reported during the clinical development program. During post-marketing experience toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms, and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis have been reported. Discontinue PREZCOBIX immediately if signs or symptoms of severe skin reactions develop. These can include but are not limited to severe rash or rash accompanied with fever, general malaise, fatigue, muscle or joint aches, blisters, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, hepatitis and/or eosinophilia. Mild-to-moderate rash was also reported and often occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and resolved with continued dosing. 5.3 Effects on Serum Creatinine Cobicistat decreases estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function. This effect should be considered when interpreting changes in estimated creatinine clearance in patients initiating PREZCOBIX, particularly in patients with medical conditions or receiving drugs needing monitoring with estimated creatinine clearance. Prior to initiating therapy with PREZCOBIX, assess estimated creatinine clearance [ ]. Dosage recommendations are not available for drugs that require dosage adjustments in PREZCOBIX-treated patients with renal impairment [ ]. Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. see Dosage and Administration (2.4) see , Drug Interactions (7.3) Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) Although cobicistat may cause modest increases in serum creatinine and modest declines in estimated creatinine clearance without affecting renal glomerular function, patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg/dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety. 5.4 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment When Used with Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome, has been reported when cobicistat, a component of PREZCOBIX, was used in an antiretroviral regimen that contained tenofovir DF. Coadministration of PREZCOBIX and tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients who have an estimated creatinine clearance below 70 mL/min . [see ] Dosage and Administration (2.3) Document urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and perform routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein during treatment when PREZCOBIX is used with tenofovir DF. Measure serum phosphorus in patients with or at risk for renal impairment when used with tenofovir DF. [see ] Dosage and Administration (2.2) Coadministration of PREZCOBIX and tenofovir DF in combination with concomitant or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent is not recommended. See cobicistat full prescribing information for additional information regarding cobicistat. 5.5 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions or Loss of Virologic Response Due to Drug Interactions Initiation of PREZCOBIX, which inhibits CYP3A, in patients receiving medications metabolized by CYP3A, or initiation of medications metabolized by CYP3A in patients already receiving PREZCOBIX may increase plasma concentrations of these medications, which may increase the risk of clinically significant adverse reactions (including life-threatening or fatal reactions) associated with the concomitant medications. Coadministration of PREZCOBIX with CYP3A inducers may lead to lower exposures of darunavir and cobicistat and loss of efficacy of darunavir and possible resistance. Therefore, consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during PREZCOBIX therapy; review concomitant medications during PREZCOBIX therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant drugs [ , ]. see Contraindications (4) Drug Interactions (7) When used with concomitant medications, PREZCOBIX may result in different drug interactions than those observed or expected with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir. Complex or unknown mechanisms of drug interactions preclude extrapolation of drug interactions with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir to certain PREZCOBIX interactions [ and ]. see Drug Interactions (7) Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) 5.6 Antiretrovirals Not Recommended PREZCOBIX is not recommended in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require pharmacokinetic boosting (i.e., another protease inhibitor or elvitegravir) because dosing recommendations for such combinations have not been established and coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of the antiretroviral agents, leading to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. PREZCOBIX is not recommended in combination with products containing the individual components of PREZCOBIX (darunavir and cobicistat) or with ritonavir. For additional recommendations on use of PREZCOBIX with other antiretroviral agents, see . Drug Interactions (7) 5.7 Sulfa Allergy Darunavir contains a sulfonamide moiety. Monitor patients with a known sulfonamide allergy after initiating PREZCOBIX. In clinical studies with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir, the incidence and severity of rash were similar in subjects with or without a history of sulfonamide allergy. 5.8 Diabetes Mellitus/Hyperglycemia New onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of pre-existing diabetes mellitus, and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV infected patients receiving HIV protease inhibitor (PI) therapy. Some patients required either initiation or dose adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents for treatment of these events. In some cases, diabetic ketoacidosis has occurred. In those patients who discontinued PI therapy, hyperglycemia persisted in some cases. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made and causal relationships between HIV PI therapy and these events have not been established. 5.9 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat, including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and \"cushingoid appearance\" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.10 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including PREZCOBIX. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune systems respond may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as infection, cytomegalovirus, pneumonia [PCP], or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Mycobacterium avium Pneumocystis jirovecii Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of antiretroviral treatment. 5.11 Hemophilia There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin hematomas and hemarthrosis in patients with hemophilia type A and B treated with HIV PIs. In some patients, additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with HIV PIs was continued or reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued. A causal relationship between PI therapy and these episodes has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Cobicistat+AND+Tablets&limit=1&skip=7
Page 7 of 8
        "generic_name": [
          "DARUNAVIR ETHANOLATE AND COBICISTAT"
        "brand_name": [
          "PREZCOBIX"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No drug interaction trials have been performed with PREZCOBIX or with darunavir coadministered with cobicistat as single entities. Drug interaction trials have been conducted with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir and with cobicistat alone. Coadministration of PREZCOBIX with other drugs can alter the concentration of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentrations of darunavir or cobicistat. Consult the full prescribing information prior to and during treatment for potential drug interactions. (4, 5.6, 7, 12.3). 7.1 Potential for PREZCOBIX to Affect Other Drugs When evaluated separately, darunavir and cobicistat both inhibited CYP3A and CYP2D6. Cobicistat inhibits the following transporters: p-glycoprotein (P-gp), BCRP, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Therefore, coadministration of PREZCOBIX with drugs that are primarily metabolized by CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 or are substrates of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 or OATP1B3 may result in increased plasma concentrations of such drugs, which could increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and can be associated with adverse events (see Table 2). Based on in vitro data, cobicistat is not expected to induce CYP1A2 or CYP2B6 and based on in vivo data, cobicistat is not expected to induce MDR1 or, in general, CYP3A to a clinically significant extent. The induction effect of cobicistat on CYP2C9, CYP2C19, or UGT1A1 is unknown, but is expected to be low based on CYP3A in vitro induction data. 7.2 Potential for Other Drugs to Affect PREZCOBIX Darunavir is metabolized by CYP3A. Cobicistat is metabolized by CYP3A, and to a minor extent, by CYP2D6. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity are expected to increase the clearance of darunavir and cobicistat, resulting in lowered plasma concentrations of darunavir and cobicistat which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. Coadministration of PREZCOBIX and other drugs that inhibit CYP3A may result in increased plasma concentrations of darunavir and cobicistat (see Table 2). 7.3 Potentially Significant Drug Interactions Table 2 provides dosing recommendations for expected clinically relevant interactions with PREZCOBIX. These recommendations are based on either drug interaction trials or predicted interactions due to the expected magnitude of interaction and potential for serious adverse events or loss of efficacy. Table 2: Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alterations in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Trials or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect on Concentration of Darunavir, Cobicistat, or Concomitant Drug Clinical Comment HIV-1 Antiviral Agents: Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs) didanosine ↔ darunavir ↔ cobicistat ↔ didanosine Didanosine should be administered one hour before or two hours after PREZCOBIX (administered with food). HIV-1 Antiviral Agents: Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NNRTIs) efavirenz, ↓ cobicistat ↓ darunavir Coadministration with efavirenz is not recommended because it may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to darunavir. etravirine, ↓ cobicistat darunavir: effect unknown Coadministration with etravirine is not recommended because it may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to darunavir. neviraprine ↓ cobicistat darunavir: effect unknown Coadministration with nevirapine is not recommended because it may result in loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance to darunavir. HIV-1 Antiviral Agents: CCR5 co-receptor antagonists maraviroc ↑ maraviroc Maraviroc is a substrate of CYP3A. When coadministered with PREZCOBIX, patients should receive maraviroc 150 mg twice daily. Other Agents Antiarrhythmics: e.g. amiodarone, disopyramide, flecainide, lidocaine (systemic), mexiletine, propafenone, quinidine, ↑ antiarrhythmics Clinical monitoring is recommended upon coadministration with antiarrhythmics. digoxin ↑ digoxin When coadministering with digoxin, titrate the digoxin dose and monitor digoxin concentrations. Antibacterial Agents clarithromycin, erythromycin, telithromycin ↑ darunavir ↑ cobicistat ↑ antibacterial Consider alternative antibiotics with concomitant use of PREZCOBIX. Anticancer Agents: dasatinib, nilotinib, ↑ anticancer agent A decrease in the dosage or an adjustment of the dosing interval of dasatinib or nilotinib may be necessary when coadministered with PREZCOBIX. Consult the dasatinib and nilotinib prescribing information for dosing instructions. vinblastine, vincristine For vincristine and vinblastine, consider temporarily withholding the cobicistat-containing antiretroviral regimen in patients who develop significant hematologic or gastrointestinal side effects when PREZCOBIX is administered concurrently with vincristine or vinblastine. If the antiretroviral regimen must be withheld for a prolonged period, consider initiating a revised regimen that does not include a CYP3A or P-gp inhibitor. Anticoagulants: apixaban, ↑ anticoagulant Concomitant use of apixaban is not recommended. dabigatran etexilate, Concomitant use with dabigatran etexilate is not recommended in specific renal impairment groups (depending on the indication). Please see the dabigatran US prescribing information for specific recommendations. rivaroxaban, Coadministration with rivaroxaban is not recommended. warfarin warfarin: effect unknown Monitor the international normalized ratio (INR) when coadministering with warfarin. Anticonvulsants that induce CYP3A: e.g. carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin ↓ cobicistat darunavir effect unknown Consider alternative anticonvulsant or antiretroviral therapy to avoid potential changes in exposures. If coadministration is necessary, monitor for lack or loss of virologic response. phenobarbital, phenytoin phenobarbital: effect unknown phenytoin: effect unknown Monitor phenobarbital or phenytoin concentrations. Anticonvulsants that are metabolized by CYP3A: e.g. clonazepam, carbamazepine ↑ carbamazepine ↑ clonazepam Clinical monitoring is recommended. Antidepressants: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs): e.g. paroxetine, sertraline, SSRIs: effects unknown ↑ TCAs When coadministering with SSRIs, TCAs, or trazodone, careful dose titration of the antidepressant to the desired effect, including using the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose, and monitoring for antidepressant response are recommended. Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs): e.g. amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline Other antidepressants: trazodone ↑ trazodone Antifungals: itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, ↑ darunavir ↑ cobicistat Monitor for increased darunavir or cobicistat adverse reactions. ↑ itraconazole ↑ ketoconazole ↔ posaconazole (not studied) Specific dosing recommendations are not available for coadministration with itraconazole or ketoconazole. Monitor for increased itraconazole or ketoconazole adverse reactions. voriconazole Voriconazole: effects unknown Coadministration with voriconazole is not recommended unless benefit/risk assessment justifies the use of voriconazole. Anti-gout: colchicine ↑ colchicine Treatment of gout flares – coadministration of colchicine: -0.6 mg (1 tablet) × 1 dose, followed by 0.3 mg (half tablet) 1 hour later. Treatment course to be repeated no earlier than 3 days. Prophylaxis of gout flares – coadministration of colchicine: -If the original regimen was 0.6 mg twice a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once a day. If the original regimen was 0.6 mg once a day, the regimen should be adjusted to 0.3 mg once every other day. Treatment of familial Mediterranean fever - coadministration of colchicine: Maximum daily dose of 0.6 mg (may be given as 0.3 mg twice a day). Coadministration with colchicine is contraindicated in patients with renal or hepatic impairment [see Contraindications (4) ]. Antimalarial: artemether/lumefantrine artemether: effect unknown lumefantrine: effect unknown Monitor for a potential decrease of antimalarial efficacy or potential QT prolongation. Antimycobacterials: rifabutin ↑ rifabutin cobicistat: effects unknown darunavir: effects unknown When used in combination with PREZCOBIX, the recommended dose of rifabutin is 150 mg every other day. Monitor for rifabutin-associated adverse reactions including neutropenia and uveitis. rifapentine ↓ darunavir Coadministration with rifapentine is not recommended. β-Blockers: e.g. carvedilol, metoprolol, timolol ↑ beta-blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with beta-blockers that are metabolized by CYP2D6. Calcium Channel Blockers: e.g. amlodipine, diltiazem, felodipine, ↑ calcium channel blockers Clinical monitoring is recommended for coadministration with calcium channel blockers metabolized by CYP3A. nifedipine, verapamil Corticosteroids (inhaled/nasal) metabolized by CYP3A: e.g. budesonide, fluticasone ↑ corticosteroid Coadministration with inhaled or nasal fluticasone or other corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A may result in reduced serum cortisol concentrations. Alternative corticosteroids should be considered, particularly for long-term use. Corticosteroid systemic: e.g. dexamethasone ↓ darunavir ↓ cobicistat ↑ corticosteroids Coadministration with dexamethasone or other corticosteroids that induce CYP3A may result in loss of therapeutic effect of and development of resistance to darunavir. Consider alternative corticosteroids. Corticosteroids (systemic) metabolized by CYP3A: e.g. budesonide, prednisolone ↑ corticosteroid Coadministration with corticosteroids that are metabolized by CYP3A, particularly for long-term use, may increase the risk for development of systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression. Consider the potential benefit of treatment versus the risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. Endothelin receptor antagonists: bosentan ↓ darunavir ↓ cobicistat ↑ bosentan Initiation of bosentan in patients taking PREZCOBIX: In patients who have been receiving PREZCOBIX for at least 10 days, start bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Initiation of PREZCOBIX in patients on bosentan: Discontinue use of bosentan at least 36 hours prior to initiation of PREZCOBIX. After at least 10 days following the initiation of PREZCOBIX, resume bosentan at 62.5 mg once daily or every other day based upon individual tolerability. Switching from darunavir coadministered with ritonavir to PREZCOBIX in patients on bosentan: Maintain bosentan dose. Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) NS3-4A protease inhibitors: boceprevir, telaprevir, simeprevir darunavir: effects unknown boceprevir: effects unknown telaprevir: effects unknown ↑ simeprevir No drug interaction data are available. Coadministration with boceprevir, simeprevir, or telaprevir is not recommended. HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors: e.g. atorvastatin, fluvastatin, pitavastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin ↑ atorvastatin ↑ fluvastatin ↑ pravastatin ↑ rosuvastatin pitavastatin: effect unknown For atorvastatin, fluvastatin, pitavastatin pravastatin, and rosuvastatin, start with the lowest recommended dose and titrate while monitoring for safety [see Contraindications (4)]. Hormonal Contraceptives: progestin/estrogen progestin: effects unknown estrogen: effects unknown No data are available to make recommendations on coadministration with oral or other hormonal contraceptives. Additional or alternative (non-hormonal) forms of contraception should be considered. Immunosuppressants: cyclosporine, sirolimus, tacrolimus ↑ immunosuppressants These immunosuppressant agents are metabolized by CYP3A. Therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended with concomitant use. Immunosuppressant/neoplastic: everolimus Coadministration of everolimus and PREZCOBIX is not recommended. Inhaled beta agonist: salmeterol ↑ salmeterol Coadministration with salmeterol is not recommended and may result in increased risk of cardiovascular adverse events associated with salmeterol, including QT prolongation, palpitations, and sinus tachycardia. Narcotic Analgesics metabolized by CYP3A: e.g. fentanyl, oxycodone ↑ fentanyl ↑ oxycodone Careful monitoring of therapeutic effects and adverse reactions associated with CYP3A-metabolized narcotic analgesics (including potentially fatal respiratory depression) is recommended with coadministration. tramadol ↑ tramadol A dose decrease may be needed for tramadol with concomitant use. Narcotic Analgesic for Treatment of Opioid Dependence: buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone, methadone buprenorphine or buprenorphine/naloxone: effects unknown methadone: effects unknown Initiation of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone in patients taking PREZCOBIX: Carefully titrate the dose of buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone to the desired effect; use the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose. Initiation of PREZCOBIX in patients taking buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone: A dose adjustment for buprenorphine, buprenorphine/naloxone or methadone may be needed. Monitor clinical signs and symptoms. Neuroleptics: e.g. perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine ↑ neuroleptics A decrease in the dose of neuroleptics that are CYP3A- or CYP2D6- metabolized may be needed when coadministered with PREZCOBIX. Phosphodiesterase PDE-5 inhibitors: e.g. avanafil, sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil ↑ PDE-5 inhibitors Coadministration with avanafil is not recommended because a safe and effective avanafil dosage regimen has not been established. Coadministration with PDE-5 inhibitors may result in an increase in PDE-5 inhibitor-associated adverse reactions including hypotension, syncope, visual disturbances and priapism. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH): Coadministration with sildenafil is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) ]. The following dose adjustments are recommended for use of tadalafil with PREZCOBIX: Initiation of tadalafil in patients taking PREZCOBIX: In patients receiving PREZCOBIX for at least one week, start tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Initiation of PREZCOBIX in patients taking tadalafil: Avoid use of tadalafil during the initiation of PREZCOBIX. Stop tadalafil at least 24 hours prior to starting PREZCOBIX. After at least one week following the initiation of PREZCOBIX, resume tadalafil at 20 mg once daily. Increase to 40 mg once daily based upon individual tolerability. Patients switching from darunavir coadministered with ritonavir to PREZCOBIX: Maintain tadalafil dose. Use of PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction: Sildenafil at a single dose not exceeding 25 mg in 48 hours, vardenafil at a single dose not exceeding 2.5 mg dose in 72 hours, or tadalafil at a single dose not exceeding 10 mg dose in 72 hours can be used with increased monitoring for PDE-5 inhibitor-associated adverse reactions. Sedatives/Hypnotics metabolized by CYP3A: e.g. buspirone, diazepam, estazolam ↑ sedatives/hypnotics With concomitant use, titration is recommended with sedatives/hypnotics metabolized by CYP3A and a lower dose of the sedatives/hypnotics should be considered with monitoring for increased and prolonged effects or adverse reactions. parenterally administered midazolam, Coadministration of parenteral midazolam should be done in a setting that ensures close clinical monitoring and appropriate medical management in case of respiratory depression and/or prolonged sedation. Dose reduction for parenteral midazolam should be considered, especially if more than a single dose of midazolam is administered. zoldipem Coadministration with oral midazolam or triazolam is CONTRAINDICATED [see Contraindications (4.0)]. Clinically relevant drug-drug interactions are not anticipated with concomitant use of darunavir and cobicistat with rilpivirine, dolutegravir, raltegravir, nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) other than didanosine, or acid modifying medications (antacids, H2-receptor antagonists, proton pump inhibitors)."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in other sections of the labeling: Hepatotoxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1) ] Severe skin reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2) ] Effects on serum creatinine [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) ] New onset or worsening renal impairment when used with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ] The most common adverse reactions to darunavir, a component of PREZCOBIX (incidence greater than or equal to 5%) of at least moderate severity (greater than or equal to Grade 2) were diarrhea, nausea, rash, headache, abdominal pain, and vomiting. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Janssen Products, LP at 1-800-JANSSEN (1-800-526-7736) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. During the darunavir clinical development program, where darunavir was coadministered with ritonavir 100 mg once or twice daily, the most common clinical adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 5%) of at least moderate intensity (greater than or equal to Grade 2) were diarrhea, nausea, rash, headache, abdominal pain, and vomiting. See the darunavir full prescribing information for additional information on adverse reactions reported with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir. See cobicistat full prescribing information for clinical trial information on adverse reactions reported with cobicistat. One single arm clinical trial was conducted with darunavir and cobicistat administered as single entities in 313 HIV-infected subjects. Adverse reactions evaluated through Week 24 did not differ substantially from those reported in clinical trials with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience See the darunavir full prescribing information for postmarketing information."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Drug-induced hepatitis (e.g., acute hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis), liver injury, including some fatalities can occcur with PREZCOBIX. Monitor liver function before and during therapy, especially in patients with underlying chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, or in patients who have pre-treatment elevations of transaminases. (5.1, 6) Skin reactions ranging from mild to severe, including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, can occur with PREZCOBIX. Discontinue treatment if severe reaction develops. (5.2, 6) Assess creatinine clearance (CLcr) before initiating treatment. (5.3) When PREZCOBIX is used in combination with a tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (tenofovir DF) containing regimen, cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome have been reported. (5.4) When used with tenofovir DF: Assess urine glucose and urine protein at baseline and monitor CLcr, urine glucose, and urine protein. Monitor serum phosphorus in patients with or at risk for renal impairment. (5.4) PREZCOBIX is not recommended in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require pharmacokinetic boosting. (5.6) Monitor in patients with a known sulfonamide allergy. (5.7) Patients receiving PREZCOBIX may develop new onset or exacerbations of diabetes mellitus/hyperglycemia (5.8), redistribution/accumulation of body fat (5.7), and immune reconstitution syndrome(5.9). Patients with hemophilia may develop increased bleeding events. (5.11) 5.1 Hepatotoxicity During the darunavir clinical development program (N=3063), where darunavir was coadministered with ritonavir 100 mg once or twice daily, drug-induced hepatitis (e.g., acute hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis) was reported in 0.5% of subjects. Patients with pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis B or C, have an increased risk for liver function abnormalities including severe hepatic adverse reactions. Post-marketing cases of liver injury, including some fatalities, have also been reported with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir. These have generally occurred in patients with advanced HIV-1 disease taking multiple concomitant medications, having co-morbidities including hepatitis B or C co-infection, and/or developing immune reconstitution syndrome. A causal relationship with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir has not been established. Appropriate laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with PREZCOBIX and patients should be monitored during treatment. Increased AST/ALT monitoring should be considered in patients with underlying chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, or in patients who have pre-treatment elevations of transaminases, especially during the first several months of PREZCOBIX treatment. Evidence of new or worsening liver dysfunction (including clinically significant elevation of liver enzymes and/or symptoms such as fatigue, anorexia, nausea, jaundice, dark urine, liver tenderness, hepatomegaly) in patients on PREZCOBIX should prompt consideration of interruption or discontinuation of treatment. 5.2 Severe Skin Reactions During the darunavir clinical development program (n=3063), where darunavir was coadministered with ritonavir 100 mg once or twice daily, severe skin reactions, accompanied by fever and/or elevations of transaminases in some cases, was reported in 0.4% of subjects. Stevens-Johnson Syndrome was rarely (less than 0.1%) reported during the clinical development program. During post-marketing experience toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms, and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis have been reported. Discontinue PREZCOBIX immediately if signs or symptoms of severe skin reactions develop. These can include but are not limited to severe rash or rash accompanied with fever, general malaise, fatigue, muscle or joint aches, blisters, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, hepatitis and/or eosinophilia. Mild-to-moderate rash was also reported and often occurred within the first four weeks of treatment and resolved with continued dosing. 5.3 Effects on Serum Creatinine Cobicistat decreases estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting actual renal glomerular function. This effect should be considered when interpreting changes in estimated creatinine clearance in patients initiating PREZCOBIX, particularly in patients with medical conditions or receiving drugs needing monitoring with estimated creatinine clearance. Prior to initiating therapy with PREZCOBIX, assess estimated creatinine clearance [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) ]. Dosage recommendations are not available for drugs that require dosage adjustments in PREZCOBIX-treated patients with renal impairment [see Drug Interactions (7.3), Clinical Pharmacology (12.2) ]. Consider alternative medications that do not require dosage adjustments in patients with renal impairment. Although cobicistat may cause modest increases in serum creatinine and modest declines in estimated creatinine clearance without affecting renal glomerular function, patients who experience a confirmed increase in serum creatinine of greater than 0.4 mg/dL from baseline should be closely monitored for renal safety. 5.4 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment When Used with Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome, has been reported when cobicistat, a component of PREZCOBIX, was used in an antiretroviral regimen that contained tenofovir DF. Coadministration of PREZCOBIX and tenofovir DF is not recommended in patients who have an estimated creatinine clearance below 70 mL/min [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. Document urine glucose and urine protein at baseline [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)] and perform routine monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance, urine glucose, and urine protein during treatment when PREZCOBIX is used with tenofovir DF. Measure serum phosphorus in patients with or at risk for renal impairment when used with tenofovir DF. Coadministration of PREZCOBIX and tenofovir DF in combination with concomitant or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent is not recommended. See cobicistat full prescribing information for additional information regarding cobicistat. 5.5 Risk of Serious Adverse Reactions or Loss of Virologic Response Due to Drug Interactions Initiation of PREZCOBIX, which inhibits CYP3A, in patients receiving medications metabolized by CYP3A, or initiation of medications metabolized by CYP3A in patients already receiving PREZCOBIX may increase plasma concentrations of these medications, which may increase the risk of clinically significant adverse reactions (including life-threatening or fatal reactions) associated with the concomitant medications. Coadministration of PREZCOBIX with CYP3A inducers may lead to lower exposures of darunavir and cobicistat and loss of efficacy of darunavir and possible resistance. Therefore, consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during PREZCOBIX therapy; review concomitant medications during PREZCOBIX therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant drugs [see Contraindications (4) , Drug Interactions (7) ]. When used with concomitant medications, PREZCOBIX may result in different drug interactions than those observed or expected with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir. Complex or unknown mechanisms of drug interactions preclude extrapolation of drug interactions with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir to certain PREZCOBIX interactions [see Drug Interactions (7) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) ]. 5.6 Antiretrovirals Not Recommended PREZCOBIX is not recommended in combination with other antiretroviral drugs that require pharmacokinetic boosting (i.e., another protease inhibitor or elvitegravir) because dosing recommendations for such combinations have not been established and coadministration may result in decreased plasma concentrations of the antiretroviral agents, leading to loss of therapeutic effect and development of resistance. PREZCOBIX is not recommended in combination with products containing the individual components of PREZCOBIX (darunavir and cobicistat) or with ritonavir. For additional recommendations on use of PREZCOBIX with other antiretroviral agents, see Drug Interactions (7) . 5.7 Sulfa Allergy Darunavir contains a sulfonamide moiety. Monitor patients with a known sulfonamide allergy after initiating PREZCOBIX. In clinical studies with darunavir coadministered with ritonavir, the incidence and severity of rash were similar in subjects with or without a history of sulfonamide allergy. 5.8 Diabetes Mellitus/Hyperglycemia New onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of pre-existing diabetes mellitus, and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing surveillance in HIV infected patients receiving HIV protease inhibitor (PI) therapy. Some patients required either initiation or dose adjustments of insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents for treatment of these events. In some cases, diabetic ketoacidosis has occurred. In those patients who discontinued PI therapy, hyperglycemia persisted in some cases. Because these events have been reported voluntarily during clinical practice, estimates of frequency cannot be made and causal relationships between HIV PI therapy and these events have not been established. 5.9 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat, including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and \"cushingoid appearance\" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established. 5.10 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including PREZCOBIX. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune systems respond may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections (such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia [PCP], or tuberculosis), which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of antiretroviral treatment. 5.11 Hemophilia There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin hematomas and hemarthrosis in patients with hemophilia type A and B treated with HIV PIs. In some patients, additional factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with HIV PIs was continued or reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued. A causal relationship between PI therapy and these episodes has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
