https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Efavirenz&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 7
        "generic_name": [
          "EFAVIRENZ, EMTRICITABINE, AND TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Atripla"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "DRUG INTERACTIONS This section describes clinically relevant drug interactions with ATRIPLA. Drug interaction trials are described elsewhere in the labeling [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Efavirenz has been shown in vivo to induce CYP3A and CYP2B6. Other compounds that are substrates of CYP3A or CYP2B6 may have decreased plasma concentrations when coadministered with efavirenz. In vitro studies have demonstrated that efavirenz inhibits CYP2C9, 2C19, and 3A4 isozymes in the range of observed efavirenz plasma concentrations. Coadministration of efavirenz with drugs primarily metabolized by these isozymes may result in altered plasma concentrations of the coadministered drug. Therefore, appropriate dose adjustments may be necessary for these drugs. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity (e.g., phenobarbital, rifampin, rifabutin) would be expected to increase the clearance of efavirenz resulting in lowered plasma concentrations [See Dosage and Administration (2)]. Since emtricitabine and tenofovir are primarily eliminated by the kidneys, coadministration of ATRIPLA with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion may increase serum concentrations of emtricitabine, tenofovir, and/or other renally eliminated drugs. Some examples include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, adefovir dipivoxil, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, and valganciclovir. Coadministration of tenofovir DF and didanosine should be undertaken with caution and patients receiving this combination should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. Didanosine should be discontinued in patients who develop didanosine-associated adverse reactions [for didanosine dosing adjustment recommendations, see Table 4]. Suppression of CD4+ cell counts has been observed in patients receiving tenofovir DF with didanosine 400 mg daily. Lopinavir/ritonavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations. The mechanism of this interaction is unknown. Patients receiving lopinavir/ritonavir with ATRIPLA should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. ATRIPLA should be discontinued in patients who develop tenofovir-associated adverse reactions [See Table 4]. Coadministration of atazanavir with ATRIPLA is not recommended since coadministration of atazanavir with either efavirenz or tenofovir DF has been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of atazanavir. Also, atazanavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations. There are insufficient data to support dosing recommendations for atazanavir or atazanavir/ritonavir in combination with ATRIPLA [See Table 4]. Other important drug interaction information for ATRIPLA is summarized in Table 1 and Table 4. The drug interactions described are based on trials conducted with efavirenz, emtricitabine or tenofovir DF as individual agents or are potential drug interactions; no drug interaction trials have been conducted using ATRIPLA [for pharmacokinetics data see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Tables 5–9]. The tables include potentially significant interactions, but are not all inclusive. Table 4 Established and Other Potentially Significant* Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Trials or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect Clinical Comment Antiretroviral agents Protease inhibitor: atazanavir ↓atazanavir concentration ↑ tenofovir concentration Coadministration of atazanavir with ATRIPLA is not recommended. Coadministration of atazanavir with either efavirenz or tenofovir DF decreases plasma concentrations of atazanavir. The combined effect of efavirenz plus tenofovir DF on atazanavir plasma concentrations is not known. Also, atazanavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations. There are insufficient data to support dosing recommendations for atazanavir or atazanavir/ritonavir in combination with ATRIPLA. Protease inhibitor: fosamprenavir calcium ↓ amprenavir concentration Fosamprenavir (unboosted): Appropriate doses of fosamprenavir and ATRIPLA with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Fosamprenavir/ritonavir: An additional 100 mg/day (300 mg total) of ritonavir is recommended when ATRIPLA is administered with fosamprenavir/ritonavir once daily. No change in the ritonavir dose is required when ATRIPLA is administered with fosamprenavir plus ritonavir twice daily. Protease inhibitor: indinavir ↓ indinavir concentration The optimal dose of indinavir, when given in combination with efavirenz, is not known. Increasing the indinavir dose to 1000 mg every 8 hours does not compensate for the increased indinavir metabolism due to efavirenz. Protease inhibitor: lopinavir/ritonavir ↓ lopinavir concentration ↑ tenofovir concentration A dose increase of lopinavir/ritonavir to 600/150 mg (3 tablets) twice daily may be considered when used in combination with efavirenz in treatment-experienced patients where decreased susceptibility to lopinavir is clinically suspected (by treatment history or laboratory evidence). Patients should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. ATRIPLA should be discontinued in patients who develop tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. Protease inhibitor: ritonavir ↑ ritonavir concentration ↑ efavirenz concentration When ritonavir 500 mg every 12 hours was coadministered with efavirenz 600 mg once daily, the combination was associated with a higher frequency of adverse clinical experiences (e.g., dizziness, nausea, paresthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes). Monitoring of liver enzymes is recommended when ATRIPLA is used in combination with ritonavir. Protease inhibitor: saquinavir ↓ saquinavir concentration Should not be used as sole protease inhibitor in combination with ATRIPLA. CCR5 co-receptor antagonist: maraviroc ↓ maraviroc concentration Efavirenz decreases plasma concentrations of maraviroc. Refer to the full prescribing information for maraviroc for guidance on coadministration with ATRIPLA. NRTI: didanosine ↑ didanosine concentration Higher didanosine concentrations could potentiate didanosine-associated adverse reactions, including pancreatitis and neuropathy. In patients weighing >60 kg, the didanosine dose should be reduced to 250 mg if coadministered with ATRIPLA. Data are not available to recommend a dose adjustment of didanosine for patients weighing <60 kg. Coadministration of ATRIPLA and didanosine should be undertaken with caution and patients receiving this combination should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. For additional information, please consult the Videx / Videx EC (didanosine) prescribing information. Other agents Anticoagulant: warfarin ↑ or ↓ warfarin concentration Plasma concentrations and effects potentially increased or decreased by efavirenz. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine ↓ carbamazepine concentration ↓ efavirenz concentration There are insufficient data to make a dose recommendation for ATRIPLA. Alternative anticonvulsant treatment should be used. phenytoin phenobarbital ↓ anticonvulsant concentration ↓ efavirenz concentration Potential for reduction in anticonvulsant and/or efavirenz plasma levels; periodic monitoring of anticonvulsant plasma levels should be conducted. Antidepressants: bupropion ↓ buproprion concentration The effect of efavirenz on bupropion exposure is thought to be due to the induction of bupropion metabolism. Increases in bupropion dosage should be guided by clinical response, but the maximum recommended dose of bupropion should not be exceeded. sertraline ↓ sertraline concentration Increases in sertraline dose should be guided by clinical response. Antifungals: itraconazole ↓ itraconazole concentration ↓ hydroxy-itraconazole concentration Since no dose recommendation for itraconazole can be made, alternative antifungal treatment should be considered. ketoconazole ↓ ketoconazole concentration Drug interaction trials with ATRIPLA and ketoconazole have not been conducted. Efavirenz has the potential to decrease plasma concentrations of ketoconazole. posaconazole ↓ posaconazole concentration Avoid concomitant use unless the benefit outweighs the risks. Anti-infective: clarithromycin ↓ clarithromycin concentration ↑ 14-OH metabolite concentration Clinical significance unknown. In uninfected volunteers, 46% developed rash while receiving efavirenz and clarithromycin. No dose adjustment of ATRIPLA is recommended when given with clarithromycin. Alternatives to clarithromycin, such as azithromycin, should be considered. Other macrolide antibiotics, such as erythromycin, have not been studied in combination with ATRIPLA. Antimycobacterial: rifabutin ↓ rifabutin concentration Increase daily dose of rifabutin by 50%. Consider doubling the rifabutin dose in regimens where rifabutin is given 2 or 3 times a week. Antimycobacterial: rifampin ↓ efavirenz concentration If ATRIPLA is coadministered with rifampin to patients weighing 50 kg or more, an additional 200 mg/day of efavirenz is recommended. Calcium channel blockers: diltiazem ↓ diltiazem concentration ↓ desacetyl diltiazem concentration ↓ N-monodes-methyl diltiazem concentration Diltiazem dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for diltiazem). No dose adjustment of ATRIPLA is necessary when administered with diltiazem. Others (e.g., felodipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, verapamil) ↓ calcium channel blocker No data are available on the potential interactions of efavirenz with other calcium channel blockers that are substrates of CYP3A. The potential exists for reduction in plasma concentrations of the calcium channel blocker. Dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for the calcium channel blocker). HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: atorvastatin pravastatin simvastatin ↓ atorvastatin concentration ↓ pravastatin concentration ↓ simvastatin concentration Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin decreased with efavirenz. Consult the full prescribing information for the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor for guidance on individualizing the dose. Hormonal contraceptives: Oral: ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate ↓ active metabolites of norgestimate A reliable method of barrier contraception must be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. Efavirenz had no effect on ethinyl estradiol concentrations, but progestin levels (norelgestromin and levonorgestrel) were markedly decreased. No effect of ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate on efavirenz plasma concentrations was observed. Implant: etonogestrel ↓ etonogestrel A reliable method of barrier contraception must be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. The interaction between etonogestrel and efavirenz has not been studied. Decreased exposure of etonogestrel may be expected. There have been postmarketing reports of contraceptive failure with etonogestrel in efavirenz-exposed patients. Immunosuppressants: cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, and others metabolized by CYP3A ↓ immuno-suppressant Decreased exposure of the immunosuppressant may be expected due to CYP3A induction by efavirenz. These immunosuppressants are not anticipated to affect exposure of efavirenz. Dose adjustments of the immunosuppressant may be required. Close monitoring of immunosuppressant concentrations for at least 2 weeks (until stable concentrations are reached) is recommended when starting or stopping treatment with ATRIPLA. Narcotic analgesic: methadone ↓ methadone concentration Coadministration of efavirenz in HIV-1 infected individuals with a history of injection drug use resulted in decreased plasma levels of methadone and signs of opiate withdrawal. Methadone dose was increased by a mean of 22% to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Patients should be monitored for signs of withdrawal and their methadone dose increased as required to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. This table is not all inclusive. Cannabinoid Test Interaction: Efavirenz does not bind to cannabinoid receptors. False-positive urine cannabinoid test results have been observed in non-HIV-infected volunteers receiving efavirenz when the Microgenics Cedia DAU Multi-Level THC assay was used for screening. Negative results were obtained when more specific confirmatory testing was performed with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. For more information, please consult the SUSTIVA prescribing information."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 10%) observed in an active-controlled clinical trial of efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir DF are diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, headache, dizziness, depression, insomnia, abnormal dreams, and rash. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gilead Sciences, Inc. at 1-800-GILEAD-5 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: The following adverse reactions are discussed in other sections of the labeling: Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis [See Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Severe Acute Exacerbations of Hepatitis B [See Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Psychiatric Symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Nervous System Symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment [See Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Rash [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Hepatotoxicity [See Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Decreases in Bone Mineral Density [See Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Immune Reconstitution Syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions (5.13)]. Drug Interactions [See Contraindications (4.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Drug Interactions (7)]. For additional safety information about SUSTIVA (efavirenz), EMTRIVA (emtricitabine), or VIREAD (tenofovir DF) in combination with other antiretroviral agents, consult the prescribing information for these products. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Clinical Trials in Adult Subjects Study 934 Study 934 was an open-label active-controlled trial in which 511 antiretroviral-naive subjects received either emtricitabine + tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz (N=257) or zidovudine/lamivudine administered in combination with efavirenz (N=254). The most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 10%, any severity) occurring in Study 934 include diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, headache, dizziness, depression, insomnia, abnormal dreams, and rash. Adverse reactions observed in Study 934 were generally consistent with those seen in previous trials of the individual components (Table 2). Table 2 Selected Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions* (Grades 2–4) Reported in ≥5% in Either Treatment Group in Study 934 (0–144 Weeks) FTC + TDF + EFV† AZT/3TC + EFV N=257 N=254 Gastrointestinal Disorder Diarrhea 9% 5% Nausea 9% 7% Vomiting 2% 5% General Disorders and Administration Site Condition Fatigue 9% 8% Infections and Infestations Sinusitis 8% 4% Upper respiratory tract infections 8% 5% Nasopharyngitis 5% 3% Nervous System Disorders Headache 6% 5% Dizziness 8% 7% Psychiatric Disorders Anxiety 5% 4% Depression 9% 7% Insomnia 5% 7% Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash Event‡ 7% 9% Frequencies of adverse reactions are based on all treatment-emergent adverse events, regardless of relationship to study drug. From Weeks 96 to 144 of the trial, subjects received emtricitabine/tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz in place of emtricitabine + tenofovir DF with efavirenz. Rash event includes rash, exfoliative rash, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculo-papular, rash pruritic, and rash vesicular. Study 073 In Study 073, subjects with stable, virologic suppression on antiretroviral therapy and no history of virologic failure were randomized to receive ATRIPLA or to stay on their baseline regimen. The adverse reactions observed in Study 073 were generally consistent with those seen in Study 934 and those seen with the individual components of ATRIPLA when each was administered in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Efavirenz, Emtricitabine, or Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate In addition to the adverse reactions in Study 934 and Study 073 the following adverse reactions were observed in clinical trials of efavirenz, emtricitabine, or tenofovir DF in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Efavirenz: The most significant adverse reactions observed in subjects treated with efavirenz are nervous system symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6)], psychiatric symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)], and rash [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Selected adverse reactions of moderate-severe intensity observed in greater than or equal to 2% of efavirenz-treated subjects in two controlled clinical trials included pain, impaired concentration, abnormal dreams, somnolence, anorexia, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, nervousness, and pruritus. Pancreatitis has also been reported, although a causal relationship with efavirenz has not been established. Asymptomatic increases in serum amylase levels were observed in a significantly higher number of subjects treated with efavirenz 600 mg than in control subjects. Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: Adverse reactions that occurred in at least 5% of treatment-experienced or treatment-naive subjects receiving emtricitabine or tenofovir DF with other antiretroviral agents in clinical trials include arthralgia, increased cough, dyspepsia, fever, myalgia, pain, abdominal pain, back pain, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy (including peripheral neuritis and neuropathy), pneumonia, rhinitis and rash event (including rash, pruritus, maculopapular rash, urticaria, vesiculobullous rash, pustular rash and allergic reaction). Skin discoloration has been reported with higher frequency among emtricitabine-treated subjects; it was manifested by hyperpigmentation on the palms and/or soles and was generally mild and asymptomatic. The mechanism and clinical significance are unknown. Clinical Trials in Pediatric Subjects Efavirenz: In a pediatric clinical trial in 57 NRTI-experienced subjects aged 3 to 16 years, the type and frequency of adverse experiences was generally similar to that of adult subjects with the exception of a higher incidence of rash, which was reported in 46% (26/57) of pediatric subjects compared to 26% of adults, and a higher frequency of Grade 3 or 4 rash reported in 5% (3/57) of pediatric subjects compared to 0.9% of adults [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. For additional information, please consult the SUSTIVA prescribing information. Emtricitabine: In addition to the adverse reactions reported in adults, anemia and hyperpigmentation were observed in 7% and 32%, respectively, of pediatric subjects (3 months to less than 18 years of age) who received treatment with emtricitabine in the larger of two open-label, uncontrolled pediatric trials (N=116). For additional information, please consult the EMTRIVA prescribing information. Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: In a pediatric clinical trial conducted in subjects 12 to less than 18 years of age, the adverse reactions observed in pediatric subjects who received treatment with tenofovir DF were consistent with those observed in clinical trials of tenofovir DF in adults [See Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: Laboratory abnormalities observed in Study 934 were generally consistent with those seen in previous trials (Table 3). Table 3 Significant Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in ≥1% of Subjects in Either Treatment Group in Study 934 (0–144 Weeks) FTC + TDF + EFV* AZT/3TC + EFV N=257 N=254 Any ≥ Grade 3 Laboratory Abnormality 30% 26% Fasting Cholesterol (>240 mg/dL) 22% 24% Creatine Kinase (M: >990 U/L) (F: >845 U/L) 9% 7% Serum Amylase (>175 U/L) 8% 4% Alkaline Phosphatase (>550 U/L) 1% 0% AST (M: >180 U/L) (F: >170 U/L) 3% 3% ALT (M: >215 U/L) (F: >170 U/L) 2% 3% Hemoglobin (<8.0 mg/dL) 0% 4% Hyperglycemia (>250 mg/dL) 2% 1% Hematuria (>75 RBC/HPF) 3% 2% Glycosuria (≥3+) <1% 1% Neutrophils (<750/mm3) 3% 5% Fasting Triglycerides (>750 mg/dL) 4% 2% From Weeks 96 to 144 of the trial, subjects received emtricitabine/tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz in place of emtricitabine + tenofovir DF with efavirenz. Laboratory abnormalities observed in Study 073 were generally consistent with those in Study 934. In addition to the laboratory abnormalities described for Study 934 (Table 3), Grade 3/4 laboratory abnormalities of increased bilirubin (greater than 2.5 × upper limit of normal (ULN)), increased pancreatic amylase (greater than 2.0 × ULN), increased or decreased serum glucose (less than 40 or greater than 250 mg/dL), and increased serum lipase (greater than 2.0 × ULN) occurred in up to 3% of subjects treated with emtricitabine or tenofovir DF with other antiretroviral agents in clinical trials. Hepatic Events: In Study 934, 19 subjects treated with efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir DF and 20 subjects treated with efavirenz and fixed-dose zidovudine/lamivudine were hepatitis B surface antigen or hepatitis C antibody positive. Among these coinfected subjects, one subject (1/19) in the efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir DF arm had elevations in transaminases to greater than five times ULN through 144 weeks. In the fixed-dose zidovudine/lamivudine arm, two subjects (2/20) had elevations in transaminases to greater than five times ULN through 144 weeks. No HBV and/or HCV coinfected subject discontinued from the trial due to hepatobiliary disorders [See Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of efavirenz, emtricitabine, or tenofovir DF. Because postmarketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Efavirenz: Cardiac Disorders Palpitations Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Tinnitus, vertigo Endocrine Disorders Gynecomastia Eye Disorders Abnormal vision Gastrointestinal Disorders Constipation, malabsorption General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Asthenia Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatic enzyme increase, hepatic failure, hepatitis. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, including cases in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors, were characterized by a fulminant course, progressing in some cases to transplantation or death. Immune System Disorders Allergic reactions Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Redistribution/accumulation of body fat [See Warnings and Precautions (5.14)], hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia, myalgia, myopathy Nervous System Disorders Abnormal coordination, ataxia, cerebellar coordination and balance disturbances, convulsions, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, neuropathy, tremor Psychiatric Disorders Aggressive reactions, agitation, delusions, emotional lability, mania, neurosis, paranoia, psychosis, suicide Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Flushing, erythema multiforme, photoallergic dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome Emtricitabine: No postmarketing adverse reactions have been identified for inclusion in this section. Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: Immune System Disorders Allergic reaction, including angioedema Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Lactic acidosis, hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders Pancreatitis, increased amylase, abdominal pain Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatic steatosis, hepatitis, increased liver enzymes (most commonly AST, ALT, gamma GT) Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and which may contribute to fractures), muscular weakness, myopathy Renal and Urinary Disorders Acute renal failure, renal failure, acute tubular necrosis, Fanconi syndrome, proximal renal tubulopathy, interstitial nephritis (including acute cases), nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, renal insufficiency, increased creatinine, proteinuria, polyuria General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Asthenia The following adverse reactions, listed under the body system headings above, may occur as a consequence of proximal renal tubulopathy: rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia, hypokalemia, muscular weakness, myopathy, hypophosphatemia."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious psychiatric symptoms: Immediate medical evaluation is recommended. (5.5, 6.1) Nervous system symptoms (NSS): NSS are frequent, usually begin 1–2 days after initiating therapy and resolve in 2–4 weeks. Dosing at bedtime may improve tolerability. NSS are not predictive of onset of psychiatric symptoms. (2, 5.6) New onset or worsening renal impairment: Can include acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome. Assess creatinine clearance (CrCl) before initiating treatment with ATRIPLA. Monitor CrCl and serum phosphorus in patients at risk. Avoid administering ATRIPLA with concurrent or recent use of nephrotoxic drugs. (5.7) Pregnancy: Fetal harm can occur when administered to a pregnant woman during the first trimester. Women should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus. A pregnancy registry is available. (5.8, 8.1) Rash: Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.9, 6.1) Hepatotoxicity: Monitor liver function tests before and during treatment in patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C coinfection, marked transaminase elevations, or who are taking medications associated with liver toxicity. Among reported cases of hepatic failure, a few occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease. (5.10, 6.3, 8.6) Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD): Consider assessment of BMD in patients with a history of pathological fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss. (5.11) Convulsions: Use caution in patients with a history of seizures. (5.12) Immune reconstitution syndrome: May necessitate further evaluation and treatment. (5.13) Redistribution/accumulation of body fat: Observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. (5.14) Coadministration with other products: Do not use with drugs containing emtricitabine or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate including COMPLERA, EMTRIVA, TRUVADA, or VIREAD; or with drugs containing lamivudine. SUSTIVA (efavirenz) should not be coadministered with ATRIPLA unless required for dose-adjustment when coadministered with rifampin. Do not administer in combination with HEPSERA. (5.4) Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs including tenofovir DF, a component of ATRIPLA, in combination with other antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women. Obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for liver disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Treatment with ATRIPLA should be suspended in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). It is recommended that all patients with HIV-1 be tested for the presence of chronic HBV before initiating antiretroviral therapy. ATRIPLA is not approved for the treatment of chronic HBV infection, and the safety and efficacy of ATRIPLA have not been established in patients coinfected with HBV and HIV-1. Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are coinfected with HBV and HIV-1 and have discontinued emtricitabine or tenofovir DF, two of the components of ATRIPLA. In some patients infected with HBV and treated with emtricitabine, the exacerbations of hepatitis B were associated with liver decompensation and liver failure. Patients who are coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV should be closely monitored with both clinical and laboratory follow up for at least several months after stopping treatment with ATRIPLA. If appropriate, initiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted. ATRIPLA should not be administered with HEPSERA® (adefovir dipivoxil) [See Drug Interactions (7.2)]. Efavirenz plasma concentrations may be altered by substrates, inhibitors, or inducers of CYP3A. Likewise, efavirenz may alter plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2B6 [See Contraindications (4.2), Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Related drugs not for coadministration with ATRIPLA include COMPLERA (emtricitabine/rilpivirine/tenofovir DF), EMTRIVA (emtricitabine), TRUVADA (emtricitabine/tenofovir DF), and VIREAD (tenofovir DF), which contain the same active components as ATRIPLA. SUSTIVA (efavirenz) should not be coadministered with ATRIPLA unless needed for dose-adjustment (e.g. with rifampin) [See Dosage and Administration (2), Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine, ATRIPLA should not be coadministered with drugs containing lamivudine, including Combivir (lamivudine/zidovudine), Epivir, or Epivir-HBV (lamivudine), Epzicom (abacavir sulfate/lamivudine), or Trizivir (abacavir sulfate/lamivudine/zidovudine). Serious psychiatric adverse experiences have been reported in patients treated with efavirenz. In controlled trials of 1008 subjects treated with regimens containing efavirenz for a mean of 2.1 years and 635 subjects treated with control regimens for a mean of 1.5 years, the frequency (regardless of causality) of specific serious psychiatric events among subjects who received efavirenz or control regimens, respectively, were: severe depression (2.4%, 0.9%), suicidal ideation (0.7%, 0.3%), nonfatal suicide attempts (0.5%, 0%), aggressive behavior (0.4%, 0.5%), paranoid reactions (0.4%, 0.3%), and manic reactions (0.2%, 0.3%). When psychiatric symptoms similar to those noted above were combined and evaluated as a group in a multifactorial analysis of data from Study AI266006 (006), treatment with efavirenz was associated with an increase in the occurrence of these selected psychiatric symptoms. Other factors associated with an increase in the occurrence of these psychiatric symptoms were history of injection drug use, psychiatric history, and receipt of psychiatric medication at trial entry; similar associations were observed in both the efavirenz and control treatment groups. In Study 006, onset of new serious psychiatric symptoms occurred throughout the trial for both efavirenz-treated and control-treated subjects. One percent of efavirenz-treated subjects discontinued or interrupted treatment because of one or more of these selected psychiatric symptoms. There have also been occasional postmarketing reports of death by suicide, delusions, and psychosis-like behavior, although a causal relationship to the use of efavirenz cannot be determined from these reports. Patients with serious psychiatric adverse experiences should seek immediate medical evaluation to assess the possibility that the symptoms may be related to the use of efavirenz, and if so, to determine whether the risks of continued therapy outweigh the benefits [See Adverse Reactions (6)]. Fifty-three percent (531/1008) of subjects receiving efavirenz in controlled trials reported central nervous system symptoms (any grade, regardless of causality) compared to 25% (156/635) of subjects receiving control regimens. These symptoms included dizziness (28.1% of the 1008 subjects), insomnia (16.3%), impaired concentration (8.3%), somnolence (7.0%), abnormal dreams (6.2%), and hallucinations (1.2%). Other reported symptoms were euphoria, confusion, agitation, amnesia, stupor, abnormal thinking, and depersonalization. The majority of these symptoms were mild-moderate (50.7%); symptoms were severe in 2.0% of subjects. Overall, 2.1% of subjects discontinued therapy as a result. These symptoms usually begin during the first or second day of therapy and generally resolve after the first 2–4 weeks of therapy. After 4 weeks of therapy, the prevalence of nervous system symptoms of at least moderate severity ranged from 5% to 9% in subjects treated with regimens containing efavirenz and from 3% to 5% in subjects treated with a control regimen. Patients should be informed that these common symptoms were likely to improve with continued therapy and were not predictive of subsequent onset of the less frequent psychiatric symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Dosing at bedtime may improve the tolerability of these nervous system symptoms [See Dosage and Administration (2)]. Analysis of long-term data from Study 006, (median follow-up 180 weeks, 102 weeks, and 76 weeks for subjects treated with efavirenz + zidovudine + lamivudine, efavirenz + indinavir, and indinavir + zidovudine + lamivudine, respectively) showed that, beyond 24 weeks of therapy, the incidences of new-onset nervous system symptoms among efavirenz-treated subjects were generally similar to those in the indinavir-containing control arm. Patients receiving ATRIPLA should be alerted to the potential for additive central nervous system effects when ATRIPLA is used concomitantly with alcohol or psychoactive drugs. Patients who experience central nervous system symptoms such as dizziness, impaired concentration, and/or drowsiness should avoid potentially hazardous tasks such as driving or operating machinery. Emtricitabine and tenofovir are principally eliminated by the kidney; however, efavirenz is not. Since ATRIPLA is a combination product and the dose of the individual components cannot be altered, patients with creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min should not receive ATRIPLA. Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome (renal tubular injury with severe hypophosphatemia), has been reported with the use of tenofovir DF [See Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. It is recommended that creatinine clearance be calculated in all patients prior to initiating therapy and as clinically appropriate during therapy with ATRIPLA. Routine monitoring of calculated creatinine clearance and serum phosphorus should be performed in patients at risk for renal impairment, including patients who have previously experienced renal events while receiving HEPSERA. ATRIPLA should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent. Pregnancy Category D: Efavirenz may cause fetal harm when administered during the first trimester to a pregnant woman. Pregnancy should be avoided in women receiving ATRIPLA. Barrier contraception must always be used in combination with other methods of contraception (e.g., oral or other hormonal contraceptives). Because of the long half-life of efavirenz, use of adequate contraceptive measures for 12 weeks after discontinuation of ATRIPLA is recommended. Women of childbearing potential should undergo pregnancy testing before initiation of ATRIPLA. If this drug is used during the first trimester of pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus. There are no adequate and well-controlled trials of ATRIPLA in pregnant women. ATRIPLA should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus, such as in pregnant women without other therapeutic options [See Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. In controlled clinical trials, 26% (266/1008) of subjects treated with 600 mg efavirenz experienced new-onset skin rash compared with 17% (111/635) of subjects treated in control groups. Rash associated with blistering, moist desquamation, or ulceration occurred in 0.9% (9/1008) of subjects treated with efavirenz. The incidence of Grade 4 rash (e.g., erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) in subjects treated with efavirenz in all trials and expanded access was 0.1%. Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 2 weeks of initiating therapy with efavirenz (median time to onset of rash in adults was 11 days) and, in most subjects continuing therapy with efavirenz, rash resolves within 1 month (median duration, 16 days). The discontinuation rate for rash in clinical trials was 1.7% (17/1008). ATRIPLA can be reinitiated in patients interrupting therapy because of rash. ATRIPLA should be discontinued in patients developing severe rash associated with blistering, desquamation, mucosal involvement, or fever. Appropriate antihistamines and/or corticosteroids may improve the tolerability and hasten the resolution of rash. Experience with efavirenz in subjects who discontinued other antiretroviral agents of the NNRTI class is limited. Nineteen subjects who discontinued nevirapine because of rash have been treated with efavirenz. Nine of these subjects developed mild-to-moderate rash while receiving therapy with efavirenz, and two of these subjects discontinued because of rash. Rash was reported in 26 of 57 pediatric subjects (46%) treated with efavirenz [See Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. One pediatric subject experienced Grade 3 rash (confluent rash with fever), and two subjects had Grade 4 rash (erythema multiforme). The median time to onset of rash in pediatric subjects was 8 days. Prophylaxis with appropriate antihistamines before initiating therapy with ATRIPLA in pediatric patients should be considered. Monitoring of liver enzymes before and during treatment is recommended for patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C infection; patients with marked transaminase elevations; and patients treated with other medications associated with liver toxicity [See also Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors [See Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. Liver enzyme monitoring should also be considered for patients without pre-existing hepatic dysfunction or other risk factors. In patients with persistent elevations of serum transaminases to greater than five times the upper limit of the normal range, the benefit of continued therapy with ATRIPLA needs to be weighed against the unknown risks of significant liver toxicity [See Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Assessment of bone mineral density (BMD) should be considered for patients who have a history of pathologic bone fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss. Although the effect of supplementation with calcium and vitamin D was not studied, such supplementation may be beneficial for all patients. If bone abnormalities are suspected then appropriate consultation should be obtained. In a 144-week trial of treatment-naive adult subjects receiving tenofovir DF, decreases in BMD were seen at the lumbar spine and hip in both arms of the trial. At Week 144, there was a significantly greater mean percentage decrease from baseline in BMD at the lumbar spine in subjects receiving tenofovir DF + lamivudine + efavirenz compared with subjects receiving stavudine + lamivudine + efavirenz. Changes in BMD at the hip were similar between the two treatment groups. In both groups, the majority of the reduction in BMD occurred in the first 24–48 weeks of the trial and this reduction was sustained through 144 weeks. Twenty-eight percent of tenofovir DF-treated subjects vs. 21% of the comparator subjects lost at least 5% of BMD at the spine or 7% of BMD at the hip. Clinically relevant fractures (excluding fingers and toes) were reported in 4 subjects in the tenofovir DF group and 6 subjects in the comparator group. Tenofovir DF was associated with significant increases in biochemical markers of bone metabolism (serum bone-specific alkaline phosphatase, serum osteocalcin, serum C-telopeptide, and urinary N-telopeptide), suggesting increased bone turnover. Serum parathyroid hormone levels and 1,25 Vitamin D levels were also higher in subjects receiving tenofovir DF. In a clinical trial of HIV-1 infected pediatric subjects 12 years of age and older (Study 321), bone effects were similar to adult subjects. Under normal circumstances BMD increases rapidly in this age group. In this trial, the mean rate of bone gain was less in the tenofovir DF-treated group compared to the placebo group. Six tenofovir DF-treated subjects and one placebo-treated subject had significant (greater than 4%) lumbar spine BMD loss at 48 weeks. Among 28 subjects receiving 96 weeks of tenofovir DF, Z-scores declined by -0.341 for lumbar spine and -0.458 for total body. Skeletal growth (height) appeared to be unaffected. Markers of bone turnover in tenofovir DF-treated pediatric subjects 12 years of age and older suggest increased bone turnover, consistent with the effects observed in adults. The effects of tenofovir DF-associated changes in BMD and biochemical markers on long-term bone health and future fracture risk are unknown. For additional information, consult the VIREAD prescribing information. Cases of osteomalacia (associated with proximal renal tubulopathy and which may contribute to fractures) have been reported in association with the use of tenofovir DF [See Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. Convulsions have been observed in patients receiving efavirenz, generally in the presence of known medical history of seizures. Caution must be taken in any patient with a history of seizures. Patients who are receiving concomitant anticonvulsant medications primarily metabolized by the liver, such as phenytoin and phenobarbital, may require periodic monitoring of plasma levels [See Drug Interactions (7.3)]. Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including the components of ATRIPLA. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections [such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis], which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution, however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and \"cushingoid appearance\" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Efavirenz&limit=1&skip=1
Page 1 of 7
        "generic_name": [
          "EFAVIRENZ"
        "brand_name": [
          "SUSTIVA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coadministration of efavirenz can alter the concentrations of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentrations of efavirenz. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered before and during therapy. (4.2, 7.1, 12.3) 7.1 Drug-Drug Interactions Efavirenz has been shown in vivo to induce CYP3A and CYP2B6. Other compounds that are substrates of CYP3A or CYP2B6 may have decreased plasma concentrations when coadministered with SUSTIVA. In vitro studies have demonstrated that efavirenz inhibits CYP2C9, 2C19, and 3A4 isozymes in the range of observed efavirenz plasma concentrations. Coadministration of efavirenz with drugs primarily metabolized by these isozymes may result in altered plasma concentrations of the coadministered drug. Therefore, appropriate dose adjustments may be necessary for these drugs. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity (eg, phenobarbital, rifampin, rifabutin) would be expected to increase the clearance of efavirenz resulting in lowered plasma concentrations. Drug interactions with SUSTIVA are summarized in Tables 2 and 7 [for pharmacokinetics data see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3, Tables 8 and 9) ]. The tables include potentially significant interactions, but are not all inclusive. Table 7: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect Clinical Comment * The interaction between SUSTIVA and the drug was evaluated in a clinical study. All other drug interactions shown are predicted. This table is not all-inclusive. HIV antiviral agents Protease inhibitor: Fosamprenavir calcium ↓ amprenavir Fosamprenavir (unboosted): Appropriate doses of the combinations with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Fosamprenavir/ritonavir: An additional 100 mg/day (300 mg total) of ritonavir is recommended when SUSTIVA is administered with fosamprenavir/ritonavir once daily. No change in the ritonavir dose is required when SUSTIVA is administered with fosamprenavir plus ritonavir twice daily. Protease inhibitor: Atazanavir sulfate ↓ atazanavir* Treatment-naive patients: When coadministered with SUSTIVA, the recommended dose of atazanavir is 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (together once daily with food) and SUSTIVA 600 mg (once daily on an empty stomach, preferably at bedtime). Treatment-experienced patients: Coadministration of SUSTIVA and atazanavir is not recommended. Protease inhibitor: Indinavir ↓ indinavir* The optimal dose of indinavir, when given in combination with SUSTIVA, is not known. Increasing the indinavir dose to 1000 mg every 8 hours does not compensate for the increased indinavir metabolism due to SUSTIVA. When indinavir at an increased dose (1000 mg every 8 hours) was given with SUSTIVA (600 mg once daily), the indinavir AUC and Cmin were decreased on average by 33-46% and 39-57%, respectively, compared to when indinavir (800 mg every 8 hours) was given alone. Protease inhibitor: Lopinavir/ritonavir ↓ lopinavir* Lopinavir/ritonavir tablets should not be administered once daily in combination with SUSTIVA. In antiretroviral-naive patients, lopinavir/ritonavir tablets can be used twice daily in combination with SUSTIVA with no dose adjustment. A dose increase of lopinavir/ritonavir tablets to 600/150 mg (3 tablets) twice daily may be considered when used in combination with SUSTIVA in treatment-experienced patients where decreased susceptibility to lopinavir is clinically suspected (by treatment history or laboratory evidence). A dose increase of lopinavir/ritonavir oral solution to 533/133 mg (6.5 mL) twice daily taken with food is recommended when used in combination with SUSTIVA. Protease inhibitor: Ritonavir ↑ ritonavir* ↑ efavirenz* When ritonavir 500 mg q12h was coadministered with SUSTIVA 600 mg once daily, the combination was associated with a higher frequency of adverse clinical experiences (eg, dizziness, nausea, paresthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes). Monitoring of liver enzymes is recommended when SUSTIVA is used in combination with ritonavir. Protease inhibitor: Saquinavir ↓ saquinavir* Should not be used as sole protease inhibitor in combination with SUSTIVA. NNRTI: Other NNRTIs ↑ or ↓ efavirenz and/or NNRTI Combining two NNRTIs has not been shown to be beneficial. SUSTIVA should not be coadministered with other NNRTIs. CCR5 co-receptor antagonist: Maraviroc ↓ maraviroc* Refer to the full prescribing information for maraviroc for guidance on coadministration with efavirenz. Integrase strand transfer inhibitor: Raltegravir ↓ raltegravir* SUSTIVA reduces plasma concentrations of raltegravir. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been directly assessed. Hepatitis C antiviral agents Protease inhibitor: Boceprevir ↓ boceprevir* Plasma trough concentrations of boceprevir were decreased when boceprevir was coadministered with SUSTIVA, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect. The combination should be avoided. Protease inhibitor: Telaprevir ↓ telaprevir* ↓ efavirenz* Concomitant administration of telaprevir and SUSTIVA resulted in reduced steady-state exposures to telaprevir and efavirenz. Other agents Anticoagulant: Warfarin ↑ or ↓ warfarin Plasma concentrations and effects potentially increased or decreased by SUSTIVA. Anticonvulsants: Carbamazepine ↓ carbamazepine* ↓ efavirenz* There are insufficient data to make a dose recommendation for efavirenz. Alternative anticonvulsant treatment should be used. Phenytoin Phenobarbital ↓ anticonvulsant ↓ efavirenz Potential for reduction in anticonvulsant and/or efavirenz plasma levels; periodic monitoring of anticonvulsant plasma levels should be conducted. Antidepressants: Bupropion ↓ bupropion* The effect of efavirenz on bupropion exposure is thought to be due to the induction of bupropion metabolism. Increases in bupropion dosage should be guided by clinical response, but the maximum recommended dose of bupropion should not be exceeded. Sertraline ↓ sertraline* Increases in sertraline dosage should be guided by clinical response. Antifungals: Voriconazole ↓ voriconazole* ↑ efavirenz* SUSTIVA and voriconazole must not be coadministered at standard doses. Efavirenz significantly decreases voriconazole plasma concentrations, and coadministration may decrease the therapeutic effectiveness of voriconazole. Also, voriconazole significantly increases efavirenz plasma concentrations, which may increase the risk of SUSTIVA-associated side effects. When voriconazole is coadministered with SUSTIVA, voriconazole maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and SUSTIVA dose should be decreased to 300 mg once daily using the capsule formulation. SUSTIVA tablets should not be broken. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3, Tables 8 and 9) .] Itraconazole ↓ itraconazole* ↓ hydroxyitraconazole* Since no dose recommendation for itraconazole can be made, alternative antifungal treatment should be considered. Ketoconazole ↓ ketoconazole Drug interaction studies with SUSTIVA and ketoconazole have not been conducted. SUSTIVA has the potential to decrease plasma concentrations of ketoconazole. Posaconazole ↓ posaconazole* Avoid concomitant use unless the benefit outweighs the risks. Anti-infective: Clarithromycin ↓ clarithromycin* ↑ 14-OH metabolite* Plasma concentrations decreased by SUSTIVA; clinical significance unknown. In uninfected volunteers, 46% developed rash while receiving SUSTIVA and clarithromycin. No dose adjustment of SUSTIVA is recommended when given with clarithromycin. Alternatives to clarithromycin, such as azithromycin, should be considered (see Other Drugs , following table). Other macrolide antibiotics, such as erythromycin, have not been studied in combination with SUSTIVA. Antimycobacterials: Rifabutin ↓ rifabutin* Increase daily dose of rifabutin by 50%. Consider doubling the rifabutin dose in regimens where rifabutin is given 2 or 3 times a week. Rifampin ↓ efavirenz* If SUSTIVA is coadministered with rifampin to patients weighing 50 kg or more, an increase in the dose of SUSTIVA to 800 mg once daily is recommended. Calcium channel blockers: Diltiazem ↓ diltiazem* ↓ desacetyl diltiazem* ↓ N-monodesmethyl diltiazem* Diltiazem dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for diltiazem). No dose adjustment of efavirenz is necessary when administered with diltiazem. Others (eg, felodipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, verapamil) ↓ calcium channel blocker No data are available on the potential interactions of efavirenz with other calcium channel blockers that are substrates of CYP3A. The potential exists for reduction in plasma concentrations of the calcium channel blocker. Dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for the calcium channel blocker). HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: Atorvastatin Pravastatin Simvastatin ↓ atorvastatin* ↓ pravastatin* ↓ simvastatin* Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin decreased. Consult the full prescribing information for the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor for guidance on individualizing the dose. Hormonal contraceptives: Oral Ethinyl estradiol/ Norgestimate ↓ active metabolites of norgestimate* A reliable method of barrier contraception must be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. Efavirenz had no effect on ethinyl estradiol concentrations, but progestin levels (norelgestromin and levonorgestrel) were markedly decreased. No effect of ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate on efavirenz plasma concentrations was observed. Implant Etonogestrel ↓ etonogestrel A reliable method of barrier contraception must be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. The interaction between etonogestrel and efavirenz has not been studied. Decreased exposure of etonogestrel may be expected. There have been postmarketing reports of contraceptive failure with etonogestrel in efavirenz-exposed patients. Immunosuppressants: Cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, and others metabolized by CYP3A ↓ immunosuppressant Decreased exposure of the immunosuppressant may be expected due to CYP3A induction. These immunosuppressants are not anticipated to affect exposure of efavirenz. Dose adjustments of the immunosuppressant may be required. Close monitoring of immunosuppressant concentrations for at least 2 weeks (until stable concentrations are reached) is recommended when starting or stopping treatment with efavirenz. Narcotic analgesic: Methadone ↓ methadone* Coadministration in HIV-infected individuals with a history of injection drug use resulted in decreased plasma levels of methadone and signs of opiate withdrawal. Methadone dose was increased by a mean of 22% to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Patients should be monitored for signs of withdrawal and their methadone dose increased as required to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Other Drugs Based on the results of drug interaction studies [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3, Tables 8 and 9) ], no dosage adjustment is recommended when SUSTIVA (efavirenz) is given with the following: aluminum/magnesium hydroxide antacids, azithromycin, cetirizine, famotidine, fluconazole, lamivudine, lorazepam, nelfinavir, paroxetine, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, and zidovudine. Specific drug interaction studies have not been performed with SUSTIVA and NRTIs other than lamivudine and zidovudine. Clinically significant interactions would not be expected since the NRTIs are metabolized via a different route than efavirenz and would be unlikely to compete for the same metabolic enzymes and elimination pathways. 7.2 Cannabinoid Test Interaction Efavirenz does not bind to cannabinoid receptors. False-positive urine cannabinoid test results have been observed in non-HIV-infected volunteers receiving SUSTIVA when the Microgenics CEDIA DAU Multi-Level THC assay was used for screening. Negative results were obtained when more specific confirmatory testing was performed with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Of the three assays analyzed (Microgenics CEDIA DAU Multi-Level THC assay, Cannabinoid Enzyme Immunoassay [Diagnostic Reagents, Inc], and AxSYM Cannabinoid Assay), only the Microgenics CEDIA DAU Multi-Level THC assay showed false-positive results. The other two assays provided true-negative results. The effects of SUSTIVA on cannabinoid screening tests other than these three are unknown. The manufacturers of cannabinoid assays should be contacted for additional information regarding the use of their assays with patients receiving efavirenz.",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most significant adverse reactions observed in patients treated with SUSTIVA are: psychiatric symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ], nervous system symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ], rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. The most common (>5% in either efavirenz treatment group) adverse reactions of at least moderate severity among patients in Study 006 treated with SUSTIVA in combination with zidovudine/lamivudine or indinavir were rash, dizziness, nausea, headache, fatigue, insomnia, and vomiting. Most common adverse reactions (>5%, moderate-severe) are rash, dizziness, nausea, headache, fatigue, insomnia, and vomiting. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Adults Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse reaction rates reported cannot be directly compared to rates in other clinical studies and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Selected clinical adverse reactions of moderate or severe intensity observed in ≥2% of SUSTIVA-treated patients in two controlled clinical trials are presented in Table 3. Table 3: Selected Treatment-Emergenta Adverse Reactions of Moderate or Severe Intensity Reported in ≥2% of SUSTIVA-Treated Patients in Studies 006 and ACTG 364 Study 006 LAM-, NNRTI-, and Protease Inhibitor-Naive Patients Study ACTG 364 NRTI-experienced, NNRTI-, and Protease Inhibitor-Naive Patients Adverse Reactions SUSTIVAb + ZDV/LAM (n=412) SUSTIVAb + Indinavir (n=415) Indinavir + ZDV/LAM (n=401) SUSTIVAb + Nelfinavir + NRTIs (n=64) SUSTIVAb + NRTIs (n=65) Nelfinavir + NRTIs (n=66) 180 weeksc 102 weeksc 76 weeksc 71.1 weeksc 70.9 weeksc 62.7 weeksc a Includes adverse events at least possibly related to study drug or of unknown relationship for Study 006. Includes all adverse events regardless of relationship to study drug for Study ACTG 364. b SUSTIVA provided as 600 mg once daily. c Median duration of treatment. d Includes erythema multiforme, rash, rash erythematous, rash follicular, rash maculopapular, rash petechial, rash pustular, and urticaria for Study 006 and macules, papules, rash, erythema, redness, inflammation, allergic rash, urticaria, welts, hives, itchy, and pruritus for ACTG 364. — = Not Specified. ZDV = zidovudine, LAM = lamivudine. Body as a Whole Fatigue 8% 5% 9% 0 2% 3% Pain 1% 2% 8% 13% 6% 17% Central and Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness 9% 9% 2% 2% 6% 6% Headache 8% 5% 3% 5% 2% 3% Insomnia 7% 7% 2% 0 0 2% Concentration impaired 5% 3% <1% 0 0 0 Abnormal dreams 3% 1% 0 — — — Somnolence 2% 2% <1% 0 0 0 Anorexia 1% <1% <1% 0 2% 2% Gastrointestinal Nausea 10% 6% 24% 3% 2% 2% Vomiting 6% 3% 14% — — — Diarrhea 3% 5% 6% 14% 3% 9% Dyspepsia 4% 4% 6% 0 0 2% Abdominal pain 2% 2% 5% 3% 3% 3% Psychiatric Anxiety 2% 4% <1% — — — Depression 5% 4% <1% 3% 0 5% Nervousness 2% 2% 0 2% 0 2% Skin & Appendages Rashd 11% 16% 5% 9% 5% 9% Pruritus <1% 1% 1% 9% 5% 9% Pancreatitis has been reported, although a causal relationship with efavirenz has not been established. Asymptomatic increases in serum amylase levels were observed in a significantly higher number of patients treated with efavirenz 600 mg than in control patients (see Laboratory Abnormalities ). Nervous System Symptoms For 1008 patients treated with regimens containing SUSTIVA and 635 patients treated with a control regimen in controlled trials, Table 4 lists the frequency of symptoms of different degrees of severity and gives the discontinuation rates for one or more of the following nervous system symptoms: dizziness, insomnia, impaired concentration, somnolence, abnormal dreaming, euphoria, confusion, agitation, amnesia, hallucinations, stupor, abnormal thinking, and depersonalization [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. The frequencies of specific central and peripheral nervous system symptoms are provided in Table 3. Table 4: Percent of Patients with One or More Selected Nervous System Symptomsa,b Percent of Patients with: SUSTIVA 600 mg Once Daily (n=1008) Control Groups (n=635) % % a Includes events reported regardless of causality. b Data from Study 006 and three Phase 2/3 studies. c “Mild” = Symptoms which do not interfere with patient’s daily activities. d “Moderate” = Symptoms which may interfere with daily activities. e “Severe” = Events which interrupt patient’s usual daily activities. Symptoms of any severity 52.7 24.6 Mild symptomsc 33.3 15.6 Moderate symptomsd 17.4 7.7 Severe symptomse 2.0 1.3 Treatment discontinuation as a result of symptoms 2.1 1.1 Psychiatric Symptoms Serious psychiatric adverse experiences have been reported in patients treated with SUSTIVA. In controlled trials, psychiatric symptoms observed at a frequency of >2% among patients treated with SUSTIVA or control regimens, respectively, were depression (19%, 16%), anxiety (13%, 9%), and nervousness (7%, 2%). Rash For 1008 adult and 57 pediatric patients treated with regimens containing SUSTIVA and 635 patients treated with a control regimen in controlled trials, the frequency of rash by NCI grade and the discontinuation rates as a result of rash in clinical studies are provided in Table 5 [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Table 5: Percent of Patients with Treatment-Emergent Rasha,b Percent of Patients with: Description of Rash Gradec SUSTIVA 600 mg Once Daily Adults (n=1008) SUSTIVA Pediatric Patients (n=57) Control Groups Adults (n=635) % % % a Includes events reported regardless of causality. b Data from Study 006 and three Phase 2/3 studies. c NCI Grading System. Rash of any grade — 26.3 45.6 17.5 Grade 1 rash Erythema, pruritus 10.7 8.8 9.8 Grade 2 rash Diffuse maculopapular rash, dry desquamation 14.7 31.6 7.4 Grade 3 rash Vesiculation, moist desquamation, ulceration 0.8 1.8 0.3 Grade 4 rash Erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, necrosis requiring surgery, exfoliative dermatitis 0.1 3.5 0.0 Treatment discontinuation as a result of rash — 1.7 8.8 0.3 As seen in Table 5, rash is more common in pediatric patients and more often of higher grade (ie, more severe) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Experience with SUSTIVA in patients who discontinued other antiretroviral agents of the NNRTI class is limited. Nineteen patients who discontinued nevirapine because of rash have been treated with SUSTIVA. Nine of these patients developed mild-to-moderate rash while receiving therapy with SUSTIVA, and two of these patients discontinued because of rash. Laboratory Abnormalities Selected Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities reported in ≥2% of SUSTIVA-treated patients in two clinical trials are presented in Table 6. Table 6: Selected Grade 3-4 Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in ≥2% of SUSTIVA-Treated Patients in Studies 006 and ACTG 364 Study 006 LAM-, NNRTI-, and Protease Inhibitor-Naive Patients Study ACTG 364 NRTI-experienced, NNRTI-, and Protease Inhibitor-Naive Patients Variable Limit SUSTIVAa + ZDV/LAM (n=412) SUSTIVAa + Indinavir (n=415) Indinavir + ZDV/LAM (n=401) SUSTIVAa + Nelfinavir + NRTIs (n=64) SUSTIVAa + NRTIs (n=65) Nelfinavir + NRTIs (n=66) 180 weeksb 102 weeksb 76 weeksb 71.1 weeksb 70.9 weeksb 62.7 weeksb a SUSTIVA provided as 600 mg once daily. b Median duration of treatment. c Isolated elevations of GGT in patients receiving SUSTIVA may reflect enzyme induction not associated with liver toxicity. d Nonfasting. ZDV = zidovudine, LAM = lamivudine, ULN = Upper limit of normal, ALT = alanine aminotransferase, AST = aspartate aminotransferase, GGT = gamma-glutamyltransferase. Chemistry ALT >5 x ULN 5% 8% 5% 2% 6% 3% AST >5 x ULN 5% 6% 5% 6% 8% 8% GGTc >5 x ULN 8% 7% 3% 5% 0 5% Amylase >2 x ULN 4% 4% 1% 0 6% 2% Glucose >250 mg/dL 3% 3% 3% 5% 2% 3% Triglyceridesd ≥751 mg/dL 9% 6% 6% 11% 8% 17% Hematology Neutrophils <750/mm3 10% 3% 5% 2% 3% 2% Patients Coinfected with Hepatitis B or C Liver function tests should be monitored in patients with a history of hepatitis B and/or C. In the long-term data set from Study 006, 137 patients treated with SUSTIVA-containing regimens (median duration of therapy, 68 weeks) and 84 treated with a control regimen (median duration, 56 weeks) were seropositive at screening for hepatitis B (surface antigen positive) and/or C (hepatitis C antibody positive). Among these coinfected patients, elevations in AST to greater than five times ULN developed in 13% of patients in the SUSTIVA arms and 7% of those in the control arm, and elevations in ALT to greater than five times ULN developed in 20% of patients in the SUSTIVA arms and 7% of patients in the control arm. Among coinfected patients, 3% of those treated with SUSTIVA-containing regimens and 2% in the control arm discontinued from the study because of liver or biliary system disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Lipids Increases from baseline in total cholesterol of 10-20% have been observed in some uninfected volunteers receiving SUSTIVA. In patients treated with SUSTIVA + zidovudine + lamivudine, increases from baseline in nonfasting total cholesterol and HDL of approximately 20% and 25%, respectively, were observed. In patients treated with SUSTIVA + indinavir, increases from baseline in nonfasting cholesterol and HDL of approximately 40% and 35%, respectively, were observed. Nonfasting total cholesterol levels ≥240 mg/dL and ≥300 mg/dL were reported in 34% and 9%, respectively, of patients treated with SUSTIVA + zidovudine + lamivudine; 54% and 20%, respectively, of patients treated with SUSTIVA + indinavir; and 28% and 4%, respectively, of patients treated with indinavir + zidovudine + lamivudine. The effects of SUSTIVA on triglycerides and LDL in this study were not well characterized since samples were taken from nonfasting patients. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. 6.2 Clinical Trial Experience in Pediatric Patients Clinical adverse experiences observed in ≥10% of 57 pediatric patients aged 3 to 16 years who received SUSTIVA capsules, nelfinavir, and one or more NRTIs in Study ACTG 382 [see Use In Specific Populations (8.4) ] were rash (46%), diarrhea/loose stools (39%), fever (21%), cough (16%), dizziness/lightheaded/fainting (16%), ache/pain/discomfort (14%), nausea/vomiting (12%), and headache (11%). The incidence of nervous system symptoms was 18% (10/57). One patient experienced Grade 3 rash, two patients had Grade 4 rash, and five patients (9%) discontinued because of rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) and Adverse Reactions (6.1, Table 5) ]. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of SUSTIVA. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: allergic reactions, asthenia, redistribution/accumulation of body fat [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] Central and Peripheral Nervous System: abnormal coordination, ataxia, cerebellar coordination and balance disturbances, convulsions, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, neuropathy, tremor, vertigo Endocrine: gynecomastia Gastrointestinal: constipation, malabsorption Cardiovascular: flushing, palpitations Liver and Biliary System: hepatic enzyme increase, hepatic failure, hepatitis. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, including cases in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors, were characterized by a fulminant course, progressing in some cases to transplantation or death. Metabolic and Nutritional: hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, myalgia, myopathy Psychiatric: aggressive reactions, agitation, delusions, emotional lability, mania, neurosis, paranoia, psychosis, suicide Respiratory: dyspnea Skin and Appendages: erythema multiforme, photoallergic dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome Special Senses: abnormal vision, tinnitus",
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Do not use as a single agent or add on as a sole agent to a failing regimen. Consider potential for cross resistance when choosing other agents. (5.2) Not recommended with ATRIPLA, which contains efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, unless needed for dose adjustment when coadministered with rifampin. (5.3) Serious psychiatric symptoms: Immediate medical evaluation is recommended for serious psychiatric symptoms such as severe depression or suicidal ideation. (5.4, 17.5) Nervous system symptoms (NSS): NSS are frequent, usually begin 1-2 days after initiating therapy and resolve in 2-4 weeks. Dosing at bedtime may improve tolerability. NSS are not predictive of onset of psychiatric symptoms. (5.5, 6.1, 17.4) Pregnancy: Fetal harm can occur when administered to a pregnant woman during the first trimester. Women should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus. (5.6, 17.7) Pregnancy registry is available. (8.1) Hepatotoxicity: Monitor liver function tests before and during treatment in patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C coinfection, marked transaminase elevations, or who are taking medications associated with liver toxicity. Among reported cases of hepatic failure, a few occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease. (5.8, 6.1, 8.6) Rash: Rash usually begins within 1-2 weeks after initiating therapy and resolves within 4 weeks. Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.7, 6.1, 17.6) Convulsions: Use caution in patients with a history of seizures. (5.9) Lipids: Total cholesterol and triglyceride elevations. Monitor before therapy and periodically thereafter. (5.10) Immune reconstitution syndrome: May necessitate further evaluation and treatment. (5.11) Redistribution/accumulation of body fat: Observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. (5.12, 17.8) 5.1 Drug Interactions Efavirenz plasma concentrations may be altered by substrates, inhibitors, or inducers of CYP3A. Likewise, efavirenz may alter plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2B6 [see Contraindications (4.2) and Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 5.2 Resistance SUSTIVA must not be used as a single agent to treat HIV-1 infection or added on as a sole agent to a failing regimen. Resistant virus emerges rapidly when efavirenz is administered as monotherapy. The choice of new antiretroviral agents to be used in combination with efavirenz should take into consideration the potential for viral cross-resistance. 5.3 Coadministration with Related Products Coadministration of SUSTIVA with ATRIPLA (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) is not recommended unless needed for dose adjustment (eg, with rifampin), since efavirenz is one of its active ingredients. 5.4 Psychiatric Symptoms Serious psychiatric adverse experiences have been reported in patients treated with SUSTIVA. In controlled trials of 1008 patients treated with regimens containing SUSTIVA for a mean of 2.1 years and 635 patients treated with control regimens for a mean of 1.5 years, the frequency (regardless of causality) of specific serious psychiatric events among patients who received SUSTIVA or control regimens, respectively, were severe depression (2.4%, 0.9%), suicidal ideation (0.7%, 0.3%), nonfatal suicide attempts (0.5%, 0), aggressive behavior (0.4%, 0.5%), paranoid reactions (0.4%, 0.3%), and manic reactions (0.2%, 0.3%). When psychiatric symptoms similar to those noted above were combined and evaluated as a group in a multifactorial analysis of data from Study 006, treatment with efavirenz was associated with an increase in the occurrence of these selected psychiatric symptoms. Other factors associated with an increase in the occurrence of these psychiatric symptoms were history of injection drug use, psychiatric history, and receipt of psychiatric medication at study entry; similar associations were observed in both the SUSTIVA and control treatment groups. In Study 006, onset of new serious psychiatric symptoms occurred throughout the study for both SUSTIVA-treated and control-treated patients. One percent of SUSTIVA-treated patients discontinued or interrupted treatment because of one or more of these selected psychiatric symptoms. There have also been occasional postmarketing reports of death by suicide, delusions, and psychosis-like behavior, although a causal relationship to the use of SUSTIVA cannot be determined from these reports. Patients with serious psychiatric adverse experiences should seek immediate medical evaluation to assess the possibility that the symptoms may be related to the use of SUSTIVA, and if so, to determine whether the risks of continued therapy outweigh the benefits. See Adverse Reactions (6.1) . 5.5 Nervous System Symptoms Fifty-three percent (531/1008) of patients receiving SUSTIVA in controlled trials reported central nervous system symptoms (any grade, regardless of causality) compared to 25% (156/635) of patients receiving control regimens [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, Table 4) ]. These symptoms included, but were not limited to, dizziness (28.1% of the 1008 patients), insomnia (16.3%), impaired concentration (8.3%), somnolence (7.0%), abnormal dreams (6.2%), and hallucinations (1.2%). These symptoms were severe in 2.0% of patients, and 2.1% of patients discontinued therapy as a result. These symptoms usually begin during the first or second day of therapy and generally resolve after the first 2-4 weeks of therapy. After 4 weeks of therapy, the prevalence of nervous system symptoms of at least moderate severity ranged from 5% to 9% in patients treated with regimens containing SUSTIVA and from 3% to 5% in patients treated with a control regimen. Patients should be informed that these common symptoms were likely to improve with continued therapy and were not predictive of subsequent onset of the less frequent psychiatric symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Dosing at bedtime may improve the tolerability of these nervous system symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. Analysis of long-term data from Study 006 (median follow-up 180 weeks, 102 weeks, and 76 weeks for patients treated with SUSTIVA + zidovudine + lamivudine, SUSTIVA + indinavir, and indinavir + zidovudine + lamivudine, respectively) showed that, beyond 24 weeks of therapy, the incidences of new-onset nervous system symptoms among SUSTIVA-treated patients were generally similar to those in the indinavir-containing control arm. Patients receiving SUSTIVA should be alerted to the potential for additive central nervous system effects when SUSTIVA is used concomitantly with alcohol or psychoactive drugs. Patients who experience central nervous system symptoms such as dizziness, impaired concentration, and/or drowsiness should avoid potentially hazardous tasks such as driving or operating machinery. 5.6 Reproductive Risk Potential Pregnancy Category D. Efavirenz may cause fetal harm when administered during the first trimester to a pregnant woman. Pregnancy should be avoided in women receiving SUSTIVA. Barrier contraception must always be used in combination with other methods of contraception (eg, oral or other hormonal contraceptives). Because of the long half-life of efavirenz, use of adequate contraceptive measures for 12 weeks after discontinuation of SUSTIVA is recommended. Women of childbearing potential should undergo pregnancy testing before initiation of SUSTIVA. If this drug is used during the first trimester of pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. SUSTIVA should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus, such as in pregnant women without other therapeutic options. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.1) .] 5.7 Rash In controlled clinical trials, 26% (266/1008) of patients treated with 600 mg SUSTIVA experienced new-onset skin rash compared with 17% (111/635) of patients treated in control groups [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, Table 5) ]. Rash associated with blistering, moist desquamation, or ulceration occurred in 0.9% (9/1008) of patients treated with SUSTIVA. The incidence of Grade 4 rash (eg, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) in patients treated with SUSTIVA in all studies and expanded access was 0.1%. Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 2 weeks of initiating therapy with efavirenz (median time to onset of rash in adults was 11 days) and, in most patients continuing therapy with efavirenz, rash resolves within 1 month (median duration, 16 days). The discontinuation rate for rash in clinical trials was 1.7% (17/1008). SUSTIVA can be reinitiated in patients interrupting therapy because of rash. SUSTIVA should be discontinued in patients developing severe rash associated with blistering, desquamation, mucosal involvement, or fever. Appropriate antihistamines and/or corticosteroids may improve the tolerability and hasten the resolution of rash. For patients who have had a life-threatening cutaneous reaction (eg, Stevens-Johnson syndrome), alternative therapy should be considered [see also Contraindications (4.1) ]. Rash was reported in 26 of 57 pediatric patients (46%) treated with SUSTIVA capsules [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, 6.2) ]. One pediatric patient experienced Grade 3 rash (confluent rash with fever), and two patients had Grade 4 rash (erythema multiforme). The median time to onset of rash in pediatric patients was 8 days. Prophylaxis with appropriate antihistamines before initiating therapy with SUSTIVA in pediatric patients should be considered. 5.8 Hepatotoxicity Monitoring of liver enzymes before and during treatment is recommended for patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C infection; patients with marked transaminase elevations; and patients treated with other medications associated with liver toxicity [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors [see Adverse Reactions (6.3) ]. Liver enzyme monitoring should also be considered for patients without pre-existing hepatic dysfunction or other risk factors. In patients with persistent elevations of serum transaminases to greater than five times the upper limit of the normal range, the benefit of continued therapy with SUSTIVA needs to be weighed against the unknown risks of significant liver toxicity. 5.9 Convulsions Convulsions have been observed in patients receiving efavirenz, generally in the presence of known medical history of seizures [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ]. Caution must be taken in any patient with a history of seizures. Patients who are receiving concomitant anticonvulsant medications primarily metabolized by the liver, such as phenytoin and phenobarbital, may require periodic monitoring of plasma levels [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 5.10 Lipid Elevations Treatment with SUSTIVA has resulted in increases in the concentration of total cholesterol and triglycerides [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Cholesterol and triglyceride testing should be performed before initiating SUSTIVA therapy and at periodic intervals during therapy. 5.11 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including SUSTIVA. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections [such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis], which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.12 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and “cushingoid appearance” have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established.",
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Efavirenz&limit=1&skip=2
Page 2 of 7
        "generic_name": [
          "EFAVIRENZ"
        "brand_name": [
          "SUSTIVA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coadministration of efavirenz can alter the concentrations of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentrations of efavirenz. The potential for drug-drug interactions should be considered before and during therapy. (7.1, 12.3) 7.1 Drug-Drug Interactions Efavirenz has been shown in vivo to induce CYP3A and CYP2B6. Other compounds that are substrates of CYP3A or CYP2B6 may have decreased plasma concentrations when coadministered with SUSTIVA. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity (eg, phenobarbital, rifampin, rifabutin) would be expected to increase the clearance of efavirenz resulting in lowered plasma concentrations [ see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. Drug interactions with SUSTIVA are summarized in Table 5 [for pharmacokinetics data see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3, Tables 7 and 8) ]. This table includes potentially significant interactions, but is not all inclusive. Table 5: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect Clinical Comment * The interaction between SUSTIVA and the drug was evaluated in a clinical study. All other drug interactions shown are predicted. This table is not all-inclusive. HIV antiviral agents Protease inhibitor: Fosamprenavir calcium ↓ amprenavir Fosamprenavir (unboosted): Appropriate doses of the combinations with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Fosamprenavir/ritonavir: An additional 100 mg/day (300 mg total) of ritonavir is recommended when SUSTIVA is administered with fosamprenavir/ritonavir once daily. No change in the ritonavir dose is required when SUSTIVA is administered with fosamprenavir plus ritonavir twice daily. Protease inhibitor: Atazanavir ↓ atazanavir* Treatment-naive patients: When coadministered with SUSTIVA, the recommended dose of atazanavir is 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (together once daily with food) and SUSTIVA 600 mg (once daily on an empty stomach, preferably at bedtime). Treatment-experienced patients: Coadministration of SUSTIVA and atazanavir is not recommended. Protease inhibitor: Indinavir ↓ indinavir* The optimal dose of indinavir, when given in combination with SUSTIVA, is not known. Increasing the indinavir dose to 1000 mg every 8 hours does not compensate for the increased indinavir metabolism due to SUSTIVA. When indinavir at an increased dose (1000 mg every 8 hours) was given with SUSTIVA (600 mg once daily), the indinavir AUC and C min were decreased on average by 33-46% and 39-57%, respectively, compared to when indinavir (800 mg every 8 hours) was given alone. Protease inhibitor: Lopinavir/ritonavir ↓ lopinavir* Dose increase of lopinavir/ritonavir is recommended for all patients. Lopinavir/ritonavir tablets should not be administered once daily in combination with SUSTIVA. See the lopinavir/ritonavir prescribing information for dose adjustments of lopinavir/ritonavir when coadministered with efavirenz in adult and pediatric patients. Protease inhibitor: Ritonavir ↑ ritonavir* ↑ efavirenz* When ritonavir 500 mg q12h was coadministered with SUSTIVA 600 mg once daily, the combination was associated with a higher frequency of adverse clinical experiences (eg, dizziness, nausea, paresthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes). Monitoring of liver enzymes is recommended when SUSTIVA is used in combination with ritonavir. Protease inhibitor: Saquinavir ↓ saquinavir* Appropriate doses of the combination of SUSTIVA and saquinavir/ritonavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. NNRTI: Other NNRTIs ↑ or ↓ efavirenz and/or NNRTI Combining two NNRTIs has not been shown to be beneficial. SUSTIVA should not be coadministered with other NNRTIs. CCR5 co-receptor antagonist: Maraviroc ↓ maraviroc* Refer to the full prescribing information for maraviroc for guidance on coadministration with efavirenz. Hepatitis C antiviral agents Protease inhibitor: Boceprevir ↓ boceprevir* Plasma trough concentrations of boceprevir were decreased when boceprevir was coadministered with SUSTIVA, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect. The combination should be avoided. Protease inhibitor: Simeprevir ↓ simeprevir* ↔ efavirenz* Concomitant administration of simeprevir with SUSTIVA is not recommended because it may result in loss of therapeutic effect of simeprevir. Other agents Anticoagulant: Warfarin ↑ or ↓ warfarin Plasma concentrations and effects potentially increased or decreased by SUSTIVA. Anticonvulsants: Carbamazepine ↓ carbamazepine* ↓ efavirenz* There are insufficient data to make a dose recommendation for efavirenz. Alternative anticonvulsant treatment should be used. Phenytoin Phenobarbital ↓ anticonvulsant ↓ efavirenz Potential for reduction in anticonvulsant and/or efavirenz plasma levels; periodic monitoring of anticonvulsant plasma levels should be conducted. Antidepressants: Bupropion ↓ bupropion* The effect of efavirenz on bupropion exposure is thought to be due to the induction of bupropion metabolism. Increases in bupropion dosage should be guided by clinical response, but the maximum recommended dose of bupropion should not be exceeded. Sertraline ↓ sertraline* Increases in sertraline dosage should be guided by clinical response. Antifungals: Voriconazole ↓ voriconazole* ↑ efavirenz* SUSTIVA and voriconazole should not be coadministered at standard doses. Efavirenz significantly decreases voriconazole plasma concentrations, and coadministration may decrease the therapeutic effectiveness of voriconazole. Also, voriconazole significantly increases efavirenz plasma concentrations, which may increase the risk of SUSTIVA-associated side effects. When voriconazole is coadministered with SUSTIVA, voriconazole maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and SUSTIVA dose should be decreased to 300 mg once daily using the capsule formulation. SUSTIVA tablets must not be broken. [ See Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3, Tables 7 and 8) .] Itraconazole ↓ itraconazole* ↓ hydroxyitraconazole* Since no dose recommendation for itraconazole can be made, alternative antifungal treatment should be considered. Ketoconazole ↓ ketoconazole Drug interaction studies with SUSTIVA and ketoconazole have not been conducted. SUSTIVA has the potential to decrease plasma concentrations of ketoconazole. Posaconazole ↓ posaconazole* Avoid concomitant use unless the benefit outweighs the risks. Anti-infective: Clarithromycin ↓ clarithromycin* ↑ 14-OH metabolite* Plasma concentrations decreased by SUSTIVA; clinical significance unknown. In uninfected volunteers, 46% developed rash while receiving SUSTIVA and clarithromycin. No dose adjustment of SUSTIVA is recommended when given with clarithromycin. Alternatives to clarithromycin, such as azithromycin, should be considered (see Other Drugs , following table). Other macrolide antibiotics, such as erythromycin, have not been studied in combination with SUSTIVA. Antimycobacterials: Rifabutin ↓ rifabutin* Increase daily dose of rifabutin by 50%. Consider doubling the rifabutin dose in regimens where rifabutin is given 2 or 3 times a week. Rifampin ↓ efavirenz* If SUSTIVA is coadministered with rifampin to patients weighing 50 kg or more, an increase in the dose of SUSTIVA to 800 mg once daily is recommended. Antimalarials: Artemether/lumefantrine ↓ artemether* ↓ dihydroartemisinin* ↓ lumefantrine* Artemether/lumefantrine should be used cautiously with efavirenz because decreased artemether, dihydroartemisinin (active metabolite of artemether), and/or lumefantrine concentrations may result in a decrease of antimalarial efficacy of artemether/lumefantrine. Atovaquone/proguanil ↑ atovaquone* ↓ proguanil* Concomitant administration is not recommended. Calcium channel blockers: Diltiazem ↓ diltiazem* ↓ desacetyl diltiazem* ↓ N-monodesmethyl diltiazem* Diltiazem dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for diltiazem). No dose adjustment of efavirenz is necessary when administered with diltiazem. Others (eg, felodipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, verapamil) ↓ calcium channel blocker No data are available on the potential interactions of efavirenz with other calcium channel blockers that are substrates of CYP3A. The potential exists for reduction in plasma concentrations of the calcium channel blocker. Dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for the calcium channel blocker). HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: Atorvastatin Pravastatin Simvastatin ↓ atorvastatin* ↓ pravastatin* ↓ simvastatin* Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin decreased. Consult the full prescribing information for the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor for guidance on individualizing the dose. Hormonal contraceptives: Oral Ethinyl estradiol/ Norgestimate ↓ active metabolites of norgestimate* A reliable method of barrier contraception should be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. Efavirenz had no effect on ethinyl estradiol concentrations, but progestin levels (norelgestromin and levonorgestrel) were markedly decreased. No effect of ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate on efavirenz plasma concentrations was observed. Implant Etonogestrel ↓ etonogestrel A reliable method of barrier contraception should be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. The interaction between etonogestrel and efavirenz has not been studied. Decreased exposure of etonogestrel may be expected. There have been postmarketing reports of contraceptive failure with etonogestrel in efavirenz-exposed patients. Immunosuppressants: Cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, and others metabolized by CYP3A ↓ immunosuppressant Decreased exposure of the immunosuppressant may be expected due to CYP3A induction. These immunosuppressants are not anticipated to affect exposure of efavirenz. Dose adjustments of the immunosuppressant may be required. Close monitoring of immunosuppressant concentrations for at least 2 weeks (until stable concentrations are reached) is recommended when starting or stopping treatment with efavirenz. Narcotic analgesic: Methadone ↓ methadone* Coadministration in HIV-infected individuals with a history of injection drug use resulted in decreased plasma levels of methadone and signs of opiate withdrawal. Methadone dose was increased by a mean of 22% to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Patients should be monitored for signs of withdrawal and their methadone dose increased as required to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Other Drugs Based on the results of drug interaction studies [ see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3, Tables 7 and 8) ], no dosage adjustment is recommended when SUSTIVA is given with the following: aluminum/magnesium hydroxide antacids, azithromycin, cetirizine, famotidine, fluconazole, lamivudine, lorazepam, nelfinavir, paroxetine, raltegravir, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, and zidovudine. Specific drug interaction studies have not been performed with SUSTIVA and NRTIs other than lamivudine and zidovudine. Clinically significant interactions would not be expected since the NRTIs are metabolized via a different route than efavirenz and would be unlikely to compete for the same metabolic enzymes and elimination pathways. 7.2 Cannabinoid Test Interaction Efavirenz does not bind to cannabinoid receptors. False-positive urine cannabinoid test results have been reported with some screening assays in uninfected and HIV-infected subjects receiving efavirenz. Confirmation of positive screening tests for cannabinoids by a more specific method is recommended.",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (>5%, moderate-severe) are impaired concentration, abnormal dreams, rash, dizziness, nausea, headache, fatigue, insomnia, and vomiting. (5.5, 6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . The most significant adverse reactions observed in patients treated with SUSTIVA are: psychiatric symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ], nervous system symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ], rash [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse reaction rates reported cannot be directly compared to rates in other clinical studies and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Adverse Reactions in Adults The most common (>5% in either efavirenz treatment group) adverse reactions of at least moderate severity among patients in Study 006 treated with SUSTIVA in combination with zidovudine/lamivudine or indinavir were rash, dizziness, nausea, headache, fatigue, insomnia, and vomiting. Selected clinical adverse reactions of moderate or severe intensity observed in ≥2% of SUSTIVA-treated patients in two controlled clinical trials are presented in Table 2. Table 2: Selected Treatment-Emergent a Adverse Reactions of Moderate or Severe Intensity Reported in ≥2% of SUSTIVA-Treated Patients in Studies 006 and ACTG 364 Study 006 LAM-, NNRTI-, and Protease Inhibitor-Naive Patients Study ACTG 364 NRTI-experienced, NNRTI-, and Protease Inhibitor-Naive Patients SUSTIVA b + ZDV/LAM (n=412) SUSTIVA b + Indinavir (n=415) Indinavir + ZDV/LAM (n=401) SUSTIVA b + Nelfinavir + NRTIs (n=64) SUSTIVA b + NRTIs (n=65) Nelfinavir + NRTIs (n=66) Adverse Reactions 180 weeks c 102 weeks c 76 weeks c 71.1 weeks c 70.9 weeks c 62.7 weeks c a Includes adverse events at least possibly related to study drug or of unknown relationship for Study 006. Includes all adverse events regardless of relationship to study drug for Study ACTG 364. b SUSTIVA provided as 600 mg once daily. c Median duration of treatment. d Includes erythema multiforme, rash, rash erythematous, rash follicular, rash maculopapular, rash petechial, rash pustular, and urticaria for Study 006 and macules, papules, rash, erythema, redness, inflammation, allergic rash, urticaria, welts, hives, itchy, and pruritus for ACTG 364. — = Not Specified. ZDV = zidovudine, LAM = lamivudine. Body as a Whole Fatigue 8% 5% 9% 0 2% 3% Pain 1% 2% 8% 13% 6% 17% Central and Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness 9% 9% 2% 2% 6% 6% Headache 8% 5% 3% 5% 2% 3% Insomnia 7% 7% 2% 0 0 2% Concentration impaired 5% 3% <1% 0 0 0 Abnormal dreams 3% 1% 0 — — — Somnolence 2% 2% <1% 0 0 0 Anorexia 1% <1% <1% 0 2% 2% Gastrointestinal Nausea 10% 6% 24% 3% 2% 2% Vomiting 6% 3% 14% — — — Diarrhea 3% 5% 6% 14% 3% 9% Dyspepsia 4% 4% 6% 0 0 2% Abdominal pain 2% 2% 5% 3% 3% 3% Psychiatric Anxiety 2% 4% <1% — — — Depression 5% 4% <1% 3% 0 5% Nervousness 2% 2% 0 2% 0 2% Skin & Appendages Rash d 11% 16% 5% 9% 5% 9% Pruritus <1% 1% 1% 9% 5% 9% Pancreatitis has been reported, although a causal relationship with efavirenz has not been established. Asymptomatic increases in serum amylase levels were observed in a significantly higher number of patients treated with efavirenz 600 mg than in control patients (see Laboratory Abnormalities ). Nervous System Symptoms For 1008 patients treated with regimens containing SUSTIVA and 635 patients treated with a control regimen in controlled trials, Table 3 lists the frequency of symptoms of different degrees of severity and gives the discontinuation rates for one or more of the following nervous system symptoms: dizziness, insomnia, impaired concentration, somnolence, abnormal dreaming, euphoria, confusion, agitation, amnesia, hallucinations, stupor, abnormal thinking, and depersonalization [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. The frequencies of specific central and peripheral nervous system symptoms are provided in Table 2. Table 3: Percent of Patients with One or More Selected Nervous System Symptoms a,b Percent of Patients with: SUSTIVA 600 mg Once Daily (n=1008) Control Groups (n=635) % % a Includes events reported regardless of causality. b Data from Study 006 and three Phase 2/3 studies. c “Mild” = Symptoms which do not interfere with patient’s daily activities. d “Moderate” = Symptoms which may interfere with daily activities. e “Severe” = Events which interrupt patient’s usual daily activities. Symptoms of any severity 52.7 24.6 Mild symptoms c 33.3 15.6 Moderate symptoms d 17.4 7.7 Severe symptoms e 2.0 1.3 Treatment discontinuation as a result of symptoms 2.1 1.1 Psychiatric Symptoms Serious psychiatric adverse experiences have been reported in patients treated with SUSTIVA. In controlled trials, psychiatric symptoms observed at a frequency greater than 2% among patients treated with SUSTIVA or control regimens, respectively, were depression (19%, 16%), anxiety (13%, 9%), and nervousness (7%, 2%). Rash In controlled clinical trials, the frequency of rash (all grades, regardless of causality) was 26% for 1008 adults treated with regimens containing SUSTIVA and 17% for 635 adults treated with a control regimen. Most reports of rash were mild or moderate in severity. The frequency of Grade 3 rash was 0.8% for SUSTIVA-treated patients and 0.3% for control groups, and the frequency of Grade 4 rash was 0.1% for SUSTIVA and 0 for control groups. The discontinuation rates as a result of rash were 1.7% for SUSTIVA-treated patients and 0.3% for control groups [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Experience with SUSTIVA in patients who discontinued other antiretroviral agents of the NNRTI class is limited. Nineteen patients who discontinued nevirapine because of rash have been treated with SUSTIVA. Nine of these patients developed mild-to-moderate rash while receiving therapy with SUSTIVA, and two of these patients discontinued because of rash. Laboratory Abnormalities Selected Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities reported in ≥2% of SUSTIVA-treated patients in two clinical trials are presented in Table 4. Table 4: Selected Grade 3-4 Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in ≥2% of SUSTIVA-Treated Patients in Studies 006 and ACTG 364 Study 006 LAM-, NNRTI-, and Protease Inhibitor-Naive Patients Study ACTG 364 NRTI-experienced, NNRTI-, and Protease Inhibitor-Naive Patients Variable Limit SUSTIVA a + ZDV/LAM (n=412) SUSTIVA a + Indinavir (n=415) Indinavir + ZDV/LAM (n=401) SUSTIVA a + Nelfinavir + NRTIs (n=64) SUSTIVA a + NRTIs (n=65) Nelfinavir + NRTIs (n=66) 180 weeks b 102 weeks b 76 weeks b 71.1 weeks b 70.9 weeks b 62.7 weeks b a SUSTIVA provided as 600 mg once daily. b Median duration of treatment. c Isolated elevations of GGT in patients receiving SUSTIVA may reflect enzyme induction not associated with liver toxicity. d Nonfasting. ZDV = zidovudine, LAM = lamivudine, ULN = upper limit of normal, ALT = alanine aminotransferase, AST = aspartate aminotransferase, GGT = gamma-glutamyltransferase. Chemistry ALT >5 × ULN 5% 8% 5% 2% 6% 3% AST >5 × ULN 5% 6% 5% 6% 8% 8% GGT c >5 × ULN 8% 7% 3% 5% 0 5% Amylase >2 × ULN 4% 4% 1% 0 6% 2% Glucose >250 mg/dL 3% 3% 3% 5% 2% 3% Triglycerides d ≥751 mg/dL 9% 6% 6% 11% 8% 17% Hematology Neutrophils <750/mm 3 10% 3% 5% 2% 3% 2% Patients Coinfected with Hepatitis B or C Liver function tests should be monitored in patients with a history of hepatitis B and/or C. In the long-term data set from Study 006, 137 patients treated with SUSTIVA-containing regimens (median duration of therapy, 68 weeks) and 84 treated with a control regimen (median duration, 56 weeks) were seropositive at screening for hepatitis B (surface antigen positive) and/or C (hepatitis C antibody positive). Among these coinfected patients, elevations in AST to greater than five times ULN developed in 13% of patients in the SUSTIVA arms and 7% of those in the control arm, and elevations in ALT to greater than five times ULN developed in 20% of patients in the SUSTIVA arms and 7% of patients in the control arm. Among coinfected patients, 3% of those treated with SUSTIVA-containing regimens and 2% in the control arm discontinued from the study because of liver or biliary system disorders [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Lipids Increases from baseline in total cholesterol of 10-20% have been observed in some uninfected volunteers receiving SUSTIVA. In patients treated with SUSTIVA + zidovudine + lamivudine, increases from baseline in nonfasting total cholesterol and HDL of approximately 20% and 25%, respectively, were observed. In patients treated with SUSTIVA + indinavir, increases from baseline in nonfasting cholesterol and HDL of approximately 40% and 35%, respectively, were observed. Nonfasting total cholesterol levels ≥240 mg/dL and ≥300 mg/dL were reported in 34% and 9%, respectively, of patients treated with SUSTIVA + zidovudine + lamivudine; 54% and 20%, respectively, of patients treated with SUSTIVA + indinavir; and 28% and 4%, respectively, of patients treated with indinavir + zidovudine + lamivudine. The effects of SUSTIVA on triglycerides and LDL in this study were not well characterized since samples were taken from nonfasting patients. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse reaction rates reported cannot be directly compared to rates in other clinical studies and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Assessment of adverse reactions is based on three clinical trials in 182 HIV-1 infected pediatric patients (3 months to 21 years of age) who received SUSTIVA in combination with other antiretroviral agents for a median of 123 weeks. The adverse reactions observed in the three trials were similar to those observed in clinical trials in adults except that rash was more common in pediatric patients (32% for all grades regardless of causality) and more often of higher grade (ie, more severe). Two (1.1%) pediatric patients experienced Grade 3 rash (confluent rash with fever, generalized rash), and four (2.2%) pediatric patients had Grade 4 rash (all erythema multiforme). Five pediatric patients (2.7%) discontinued from the study because of rash [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of SUSTIVA. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: allergic reactions, asthenia, redistribution/accumulation of body fat [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] Central and Peripheral Nervous System: abnormal coordination, ataxia, cerebellar coordination and balance disturbances, convulsions, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, neuropathy, tremor, vertigo Endocrine: gynecomastia Gastrointestinal: constipation, malabsorption Cardiovascular: flushing, palpitations Liver and Biliary System: hepatic enzyme increase, hepatic failure, hepatitis. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, including cases in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors, were characterized by a fulminant course, progressing in some cases to transplantation or death. Metabolic and Nutritional: hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, myalgia, myopathy Psychiatric: aggressive reactions, agitation, delusions, emotional lability, mania, neurosis, paranoia, psychosis, suicide Respiratory: dyspnea Skin and Appendages: erythema multiforme, photoallergic dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome Special Senses: abnormal vision, tinnitus",
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Do not use as a single agent or add on as a sole agent to a failing regimen. Consider potential for cross-resistance when choosing other agents. (5.2) Not recommended with ATRIPLA, which contains efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, unless needed for dose adjustment when coadministered with rifampin. (5.3) Serious psychiatric symptoms: Immediate medical evaluation is recommended for serious psychiatric symptoms such as severe depression or suicidal ideation. (5.4, 17) Nervous system symptoms (NSS): NSS are frequent and usually begin 1-2 days after initiating therapy and resolve in 2-4 weeks. Dosing at bedtime may improve tolerability. NSS are not predictive of onset of psychiatric symptoms. (5.5, 6.1, 17) Embryo-Fetal Toxicity: Avoid administration in the first trimester of pregnancy as fetal harm may occur. (5.6, 8.1) Hepatotoxicity: Monitor liver function tests before and during treatment in patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C coinfection, marked transaminase elevations, or who are taking medications associated with liver toxicity. Among reported cases of hepatic failure, a few occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease. (5.8, 6.1, 8.6) Rash: Rash usually begins within 1-2 weeks after initiating therapy and resolves within 4 weeks. Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.7, 6.1, 17) Convulsions: Use caution in patients with a history of seizures. (5.9) Lipids: Total cholesterol and triglyceride elevations. Monitor before therapy and periodically thereafter. (5.10) Immune reconstitution syndrome: May necessitate further evaluation and treatment. (5.11) Redistribution/accumulation of body fat: Observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. (5.12, 17) 5.1 Drug Interactions Efavirenz plasma concentrations may be altered by substrates, inhibitors, or inducers of CYP3A. Likewise, efavirenz may alter plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2B6. The most prominent effect of efavirenz at steady-state is induction of CYP3A and CYP2B6. [ See Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1) .] 5.2 Resistance SUSTIVA must not be used as a single agent to treat HIV-1 infection or added on as a sole agent to a failing regimen. Resistant virus emerges rapidly when efavirenz is administered as monotherapy. The choice of new antiretroviral agents to be used in combination with efavirenz should take into consideration the potential for viral cross-resistance. 5.3 Coadministration with Related Products Coadministration of SUSTIVA with ATRIPLA (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) is not recommended unless needed for dose adjustment (eg, with rifampin), since efavirenz is one of its active ingredients. 5.4 Psychiatric Symptoms Serious psychiatric adverse experiences have been reported in patients treated with SUSTIVA. In controlled trials of 1008 patients treated with regimens containing SUSTIVA for a mean of 2.1 years and 635 patients treated with control regimens for a mean of 1.5 years, the frequency (regardless of causality) of specific serious psychiatric events among patients who received SUSTIVA or control regimens, respectively, were severe depression (2.4%, 0.9%), suicidal ideation (0.7%, 0.3%), nonfatal suicide attempts (0.5%, 0), aggressive behavior (0.4%, 0.5%), paranoid reactions (0.4%, 0.3%), and manic reactions (0.2%, 0.3%). When psychiatric symptoms similar to those noted above were combined and evaluated as a group in a multifactorial analysis of data from Study 006, treatment with efavirenz was associated with an increase in the occurrence of these selected psychiatric symptoms. Other factors associated with an increase in the occurrence of these psychiatric symptoms were history of injection drug use, psychiatric history, and receipt of psychiatric medication at study entry; similar associations were observed in both the SUSTIVA and control treatment groups. In Study 006, onset of new serious psychiatric symptoms occurred throughout the study for both SUSTIVA-treated and control-treated patients. One percent of SUSTIVA-treated patients discontinued or interrupted treatment because of one or more of these selected psychiatric symptoms. There have also been occasional postmarketing reports of death by suicide, delusions, and psychosis-like behavior, although a causal relationship to the use of SUSTIVA cannot be determined from these reports. Patients with serious psychiatric adverse experiences should seek immediate medical evaluation to assess the possibility that the symptoms may be related to the use of SUSTIVA, and if so, to determine whether the risks of continued therapy outweigh the benefits. [ See Adverse Reactions (6.1) .] 5.5 Nervous System Symptoms Fifty-three percent (531/1008) of patients receiving SUSTIVA in controlled trials reported central nervous system symptoms (any grade, regardless of causality) compared to 25% (156/635) of patients receiving control regimens [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1, Table 3) ]. These symptoms included, but were not limited to, dizziness (28.1% of the 1008 patients), insomnia (16.3%), impaired concentration (8.3%), somnolence (7.0%), abnormal dreams (6.2%), and hallucinations (1.2%). These symptoms were severe in 2.0% of patients; and 2.1% of patients discontinued therapy as a result. These symptoms usually begin during the first or second day of therapy and generally resolve after the first 2-4 weeks of therapy. After 4 weeks of therapy, the prevalence of nervous system symptoms of at least moderate severity ranged from 5% to 9% in patients treated with regimens containing SUSTIVA and from 3% to 5% in patients treated with a control regimen. Patients should be informed that these common symptoms were likely to improve with continued therapy and were not predictive of subsequent onset of the less frequent psychiatric symptoms [ see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Dosing at bedtime may improve the tolerability of these nervous system symptoms [ see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. Analysis of long-term data from Study 006 (median follow-up 180 weeks, 102 weeks, and 76 weeks for patients treated with SUSTIVA + zidovudine + lamivudine, SUSTIVA + indinavir, and indinavir + zidovudine + lamivudine, respectively) showed that, beyond 24 weeks of therapy, the incidences of new-onset nervous system symptoms among SUSTIVA-treated patients were generally similar to those in the indinavir-containing control arm. Patients receiving SUSTIVA should be alerted to the potential for additive central nervous system effects when SUSTIVA is used concomitantly with alcohol or psychoactive drugs. Patients who experience central nervous system symptoms such as dizziness, impaired concentration, and/or drowsiness should avoid potentially hazardous tasks such as driving or operating machinery. 5.6 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Efavirenz may cause fetal harm when administered during the first trimester to a pregnant woman. Advise females of reproductive potential who are receiving SUSTIVA to avoid pregnancy. [ See Use in Specific Populations (8.1 and 8.3) .] 5.7 Rash In controlled clinical trials, 26% (266/1008) of adult patients treated with 600 mg SUSTIVA experienced new-onset skin rash compared with 17% (111/635) of those treated in control groups [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Rash associated with blistering, moist desquamation, or ulceration occurred in 0.9% (9/1008) of patients treated with SUSTIVA. The incidence of Grade 4 rash (eg, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) in adult patients treated with SUSTIVA in all studies and expanded access was 0.1%. Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 2 weeks of initiating therapy with efavirenz (median time to onset of rash in adults was 11 days) and, in most patients continuing therapy with efavirenz, rash resolves within 1 month (median duration, 16 days). The discontinuation rate for rash in adult clinical trials was 1.7% (17/1008). Rash was reported in 59 of 182 pediatric patients (32%) treated with SUSTIVA [ see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Two pediatric patients experienced Grade 3 rash (confluent rash with fever, generalized rash), and four patients had Grade 4 rash (erythema multiforme). The median time to onset of rash in pediatric patients was 28 days (range 3-1642 days). Prophylaxis with appropriate antihistamines before initiating therapy with SUSTIVA in pediatric patients should be considered. SUSTIVA can generally be reinitiated in patients interrupting therapy because of rash. SUSTIVA should be discontinued in patients developing severe rash associated with blistering, desquamation, mucosal involvement, or fever. Appropriate antihistamines and/or corticosteroids may improve the tolerability and hasten the resolution of rash. For patients who have had a life-threatening cutaneous reaction (eg, Stevens-Johnson syndrome), alternative therapy should be considered [ see also Contraindications (4.1) ]. 5.8 Hepatotoxicity Monitoring of liver enzymes before and during treatment is recommended for patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C infection; patients with marked transaminase elevations; and patients treated with other medications associated with liver toxicity [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors [ see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Liver enzyme monitoring should also be considered for patients without pre-existing hepatic dysfunction or other risk factors. In patients with persistent elevations of serum transaminases to greater than five times the upper limit of the normal range, the benefit of continued therapy with SUSTIVA needs to be weighed against the unknown risks of significant liver toxicity. 5.9 Convulsions Convulsions have been observed in adult and pediatric patients receiving efavirenz, generally in the presence of known medical history of seizures [ see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ]. Caution should be taken in any patient with a history of seizures. Patients who are receiving concomitant anticonvulsant medications primarily metabolized by the liver, such as phenytoin and phenobarbital, may require periodic monitoring of plasma levels [ see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 5.10 Lipid Elevations Treatment with SUSTIVA has resulted in increases in the concentration of total cholesterol and triglycerides [ see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Cholesterol and triglyceride testing should be performed before initiating SUSTIVA therapy and at periodic intervals during therapy. 5.11 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including SUSTIVA. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections [such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis], which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.12 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and “cushingoid appearance” have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established.",
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Efavirenz&limit=1&skip=3
Page 3 of 7
        "generic_name": [
          "EFAVIRENZ, EMTRICITABINE, AND TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Atripla"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS This section describes clinically relevant drug interactions with ATRIPLA. Drug interaction trials are described elsewhere in the labeling [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Efavirenz: Coadministration of efavirenz can alter the concentrations of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentrations of efavirenz. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered before and during therapy. (4.2, 7.1, 12.3) Didanosine: Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate increases didanosine concentrations. Use with caution and monitor for evidence of didanosine toxicity (e.g., pancreatitis, neuropathy) when coadministered. Consider dose reductions or discontinuations of didanosine if warranted. (7.2) Atazanavir: Coadministration of ATRIPLA and atazanavir or atazanavir/ritonavir is not recommended. (7.3) Lopinavir/ritonavir: Coadministration increases tenofovir concentrations. Monitor for evidence of tenofovir toxicity. (7.3) 7.1 Efavirenz Efavirenz has been shown in vivo to induce CYP3A and CYP2B6. Other compounds that are substrates of CYP3A or CYP2B6 may have decreased plasma concentrations when coadministered with efavirenz. In vitro studies have demonstrated that efavirenz inhibits CYP2C9, 2C19, and 3A4 isozymes in the range of observed efavirenz plasma concentrations. Coadministration of efavirenz with drugs primarily metabolized by these isozymes may result in altered plasma concentrations of the coadministered drug. Therefore, appropriate dose adjustments may be necessary for these drugs. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity (e.g., phenobarbital, rifampin, rifabutin) would be expected to increase the clearance of efavirenz resulting in lowered plasma concentrations [See Dosage and Administration (2)]. 7.2 Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Since emtricitabine and tenofovir are primarily eliminated by the kidneys, coadministration of ATRIPLA with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion may increase serum concentrations of emtricitabine, tenofovir, and/or other renally eliminated drugs. Some examples include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, adefovir dipivoxil, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, and valganciclovir. Coadministration of tenofovir DF and didanosine should be undertaken with caution and patients receiving this combination should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. Didanosine should be discontinued in patients who develop didanosine-associated adverse reactions [for didanosine dosing adjustment recommendations, see Table 4 ]. Suppression of CD4+ cell counts has been observed in patients receiving tenofovir DF with didanosine 400 mg daily. Lopinavir/ritonavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations. The mechanism of this interaction is unknown. Patients receiving lopinavir/ritonavir with ATRIPLA should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. ATRIPLA should be discontinued in patients who develop tenofovir-associated adverse reactions [See Table 4]. Coadministration of atazanavir with ATRIPLA is not recommended since coadministration of atazanavir with either efavirenz or tenofovir DF has been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of atazanavir. Also, atazanavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations. There are insufficient data to support dosing recommendations for atazanavir or atazanavir/ritonavir in combination with ATRIPLA [See Table 4]. 7.3 Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Other important drug interaction information for ATRIPLA is summarized in Table 1 and Table 4. The drug interactions described are based on trials conducted with efavirenz, emtricitabine or tenofovir DF as individual agents or are potential drug interactions; no drug interaction trials have been conducted using ATRIPLA [for pharmacokinetics data see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Tables 5–9]. The tables include potentially significant interactions, but are not all inclusive. Table 4 Established and Other Potentially SignificantThis table is not all inclusive. Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Trials or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect Clinical Comment HIV antiviral agents Protease inhibitor: atazanavir ↓atazanavir ↑ tenofovir Coadministration of atazanavir with ATRIPLA is not recommended. Coadministration of atazanavir with either efavirenz or tenofovir DF decreases plasma concentrations of atazanavir. The combined effect of efavirenz plus tenofovir DF on atazanavir plasma concentrations is not known. Also, atazanavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations. There are insufficient data to support dosing recommendations for atazanavir or atazanavir/ritonavir in combination with ATRIPLA. Protease inhibitor: fosamprenavir calcium ↓ amprenavir Fosamprenavir (unboosted): Appropriate doses of fosamprenavir and ATRIPLA with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Fosamprenavir/ritonavir: An additional 100 mg/day (300 mg total) of ritonavir is recommended when ATRIPLA is administered with fosamprenavir/ritonavir once daily. No change in the ritonavir dose is required when ATRIPLA is administered with fosamprenavir plus ritonavir twice daily. Protease inhibitor: indinavir ↓ indinavir The optimal dose of indinavir, when given in combination with efavirenz, is not known. Increasing the indinavir dose to 1000 mg every 8 hours does not compensate for the increased indinavir metabolism due to efavirenz. Protease inhibitor: lopinavir/ritonavir ↓ lopinavir ↑ tenofovir Do not use once daily administration of lopinavir/ritonavir. Dose adjustment of lopinavir/ritonavir is recommended when coadministered with efavirenz. Refer to the full prescribing information for lopinavir/ritonavir for guidance on coadministration with efavirenz- or tenofovir-containing regimens, such as ATRIPLA. Patients should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. Protease inhibitor: ritonavir ↑ ritonavir ↑ efavirenz When ritonavir 500 mg every 12 hours was coadministered with efavirenz 600 mg once daily, the combination was associated with a higher frequency of adverse clinical experiences (e.g., dizziness, nausea, paresthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes). Monitoring of liver enzymes is recommended when ATRIPLA is used in combination with ritonavir. Protease inhibitor: saquinavir ↓ saquinavir Appropriate doses of the combination of efavirenz and saquinavir/ritonavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. CCR5 co-receptor antagonist: maraviroc ↓ maraviroc Efavirenz decreases plasma concentrations of maraviroc. Refer to the full prescribing information for maraviroc for guidance on coadministration with ATRIPLA. NRTI: didanosine ↑ didanosine Coadministration of ATRIPLA and didanosine should be undertaken with caution and patients receiving this combination should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions including pancreatitis, lactic acidosis, and neuropathy. A dose reduction of didanosine is recommended when co-administered with tenofovir DF. For additional information on coadministration with tenofovir DF-containing products, please refer to the didanosine prescribing information. NNRTI: Other NNRTIs ↑ or ↓ efavirenz and/or NNRTI Combining two NNRTIs has not been shown to be beneficial. ATRIPLA contains efavirenz and should not be coadministered with other NNRTIs. Integrase strand transfer inhibitor: raltegravir ↓ raltegravir Efavirenz reduces plasma concentrations of raltegravir. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been directly assessed. Hepatitis C antiviral agents Protease inhibitor: boceprevir ↓ boceprevir Plasma trough concentrations of boceprevir were decreased when boceprevir was coadministered with efavirenz, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect. The combination should be avoided. Protease inhibitor: telaprevir ↓ telaprevir ↓ efavirenz Concomitant administration of telaprevir and efavirenz resulted in reduced steady-state exposures to telaprevir and efavirenz. Other agents Anticoagulant: warfarin ↑ or ↓ warfarin Plasma concentrations and effects potentially increased or decreased by efavirenz. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine ↓ carbamazepine ↓ efavirenz There are insufficient data to make a dose recommendation for ATRIPLA. Alternative anticonvulsant treatment should be used. phenytoin phenobarbital ↓ anticonvulsant ↓ efavirenz Potential for reduction in anticonvulsant and/or efavirenz plasma levels; periodic monitoring of anticonvulsant plasma levels should be conducted. Antidepressants: bupropion ↓ buproprion The effect of efavirenz on bupropion exposure is thought to be due to the induction of bupropion metabolism. Increases in bupropion dosage should be guided by clinical response, but the maximum recommended dose of bupropion should not be exceeded. sertraline ↓ sertraline Increases in sertraline dose should be guided by clinical response. Antifungals: itraconazole ↓ itraconazole ↓ hydroxy-itraconazole Since no dose recommendation for itraconazole can be made, alternative antifungal treatment should be considered. ketoconazole ↓ ketoconazole Drug interaction trials with ATRIPLA and ketoconazole have not been conducted. Efavirenz has the potential to decrease plasma concentrations of ketoconazole. posaconazole ↓ posaconazole Avoid concomitant use unless the benefit outweighs the risks. Anti-infective: clarithromycin ↓ clarithromycin ↑ 14-OH metabolite Clinical significance unknown. In uninfected volunteers, 46% developed rash while receiving efavirenz and clarithromycin. No dose adjustment of ATRIPLA is recommended when given with clarithromycin. Alternatives to clarithromycin, such as azithromycin, should be considered. Other macrolide antibiotics, such as erythromycin, have not been studied in combination with ATRIPLA. Antimycobacterial: rifabutin ↓ rifabutin concentration Increase daily dose of rifabutin by 50%. Consider doubling the rifabutin dose in regimens where rifabutin is given 2 or 3 times a week. rifampin ↓ efavirenz If ATRIPLA is coadministered with rifampin to patients weighing 50 kg or more, an additional 200 mg/day of efavirenz is recommended. Calcium channel blockers: diltiazem ↓ diltiazem ↓ desacetyl diltiazem ↓ N-monodes-methyl diltiazem Diltiazem dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for diltiazem). No dose adjustment of ATRIPLA is necessary when administered with diltiazem. Others (e.g., felodipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, verapamil) ↓ calcium channel blocker No data are available on the potential interactions of efavirenz with other calcium channel blockers that are substrates of CYP3A. The potential exists for reduction in plasma concentrations of the calcium channel blocker. Dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for the calcium channel blocker). HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: atorvastatin pravastatin simvastatin ↓ atorvastatin ↓ pravastatin ↓ simvastatin Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin decreased with efavirenz. Consult the full prescribing information for the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor for guidance on individualizing the dose. Hormonal contraceptives: Oral: ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate ↓ active metabolites of norgestimate A reliable method of barrier contraception must be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. Efavirenz had no effect on ethinyl estradiol concentrations, but progestin levels (norelgestromin and levonorgestrel) were markedly decreased. No effect of ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate on efavirenz plasma concentrations was observed. Implant: etonogestrel ↓ etonogestrel A reliable method of barrier contraception must be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. The interaction between etonogestrel and efavirenz has not been studied. Decreased exposure of etonogestrel may be expected. There have been postmarketing reports of contraceptive failure with etonogestrel in efavirenz-exposed patients. Immunosuppressants: cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, and others metabolized by CYP3A ↓ immuno-suppressant Decreased exposure of the immunosuppressant may be expected due to CYP3A induction by efavirenz. These immunosuppressants are not anticipated to affect exposure of efavirenz. Dose adjustments of the immunosuppressant may be required. Close monitoring of immunosuppressant concentrations for at least 2 weeks (until stable concentrations are reached) is recommended when starting or stopping treatment with ATRIPLA. Narcotic analgesic: methadone ↓ methadone Coadministration of efavirenz in HIV-1 infected individuals with a history of injection drug use resulted in decreased plasma levels of methadone and signs of opiate withdrawal. Methadone dose was increased by a mean of 22% to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Patients should be monitored for signs of withdrawal and their methadone dose increased as required to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. 7.4 Efavirenz Assay Interference Cannabinoid Test Interaction: Efavirenz does not bind to cannabinoid receptors. False-positive urine cannabinoid test results have been observed in non-HIV-infected volunteers receiving efavirenz when the Microgenics Cedia DAU Multi-Level THC assay was used for screening. Negative results were obtained when more specific confirmatory testing was performed with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. For more information, please consult the SUSTIVA prescribing information."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 10%) observed in an active-controlled clinical trial of efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir DF are diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, headache, dizziness, depression, insomnia, abnormal dreams, and rash. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gilead Sciences, Inc. at 1-800-GILEAD-5 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: The following adverse reactions are discussed in other sections of the labeling: Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis [See Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Severe Acute Exacerbations of Hepatitis B [See Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Psychiatric Symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Nervous System Symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment [See Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Rash [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Hepatotoxicity [See Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Decreases in Bone Mineral Density [See Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Immune Reconstitution Syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions (5.13)]. Drug Interactions [See Contraindications (4.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Drug Interactions (7)]. For additional safety information about SUSTIVA (efavirenz), EMTRIVA (emtricitabine), or VIREAD (tenofovir DF) in combination with other antiretroviral agents, consult the prescribing information for these products. 6.1 Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Clinical Trials in Adult Subjects Study 934 Study 934 was an open-label active-controlled trial in which 511 antiretroviral-naive subjects received either emtricitabine + tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz (N=257) or zidovudine/lamivudine administered in combination with efavirenz (N=254). The most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 10%, any severity) occurring in Study 934 include diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, headache, dizziness, depression, insomnia, abnormal dreams, and rash. Adverse reactions observed in Study 934 were generally consistent with those seen in previous trials of the individual components (Table 2). Table 2 Selected Treatment-Emergent Adverse ReactionsFrequencies of adverse reactions are based on all treatment-emergent adverse events, regardless of relationship to study drug. (Grades 2–4) Reported in ≥5% in Either Treatment Group in Study 934 (0–144 Weeks) FTC + TDF + EFVFrom Weeks 96 to 144 of the trial, subjects received emtricitabine/tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz in place of emtricitabine + tenofovir DF with efavirenz. AZT/3TC + EFV N=257 N=254 Gastrointestinal Disorder Diarrhea 9% 5% Nausea 9% 7% Vomiting 2% 5% General Disorders and Administration Site Condition Fatigue 9% 8% Infections and Infestations Sinusitis 8% 4% Upper respiratory tract infections 8% 5% Nasopharyngitis 5% 3% Nervous System Disorders Headache 6% 5% Dizziness 8% 7% Psychiatric Disorders Anxiety 5% 4% Depression 9% 7% Insomnia 5% 7% Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash EventRash event includes rash, exfoliative rash, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculo-papular, rash pruritic, and rash vesicular. 7% 9% Study 073 In Study 073, subjects with stable, virologic suppression on antiretroviral therapy and no history of virologic failure were randomized to receive ATRIPLA or to stay on their baseline regimen. The adverse reactions observed in Study 073 were generally consistent with those seen in Study 934 and those seen with the individual components of ATRIPLA when each was administered in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Efavirenz, Emtricitabine, or Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate In addition to the adverse reactions in Study 934 and Study 073 the following adverse reactions were observed in clinical trials of efavirenz, emtricitabine, or tenofovir DF in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Efavirenz: The most significant adverse reactions observed in subjects treated with efavirenz are nervous system symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6)], psychiatric symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)], and rash [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Selected adverse reactions of moderate-severe intensity observed in greater than or equal to 2% of efavirenz-treated subjects in two controlled clinical trials included pain, impaired concentration, abnormal dreams, somnolence, anorexia, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, nervousness, and pruritus. Pancreatitis has also been reported, although a causal relationship with efavirenz has not been established. Asymptomatic increases in serum amylase levels were observed in a significantly higher number of subjects treated with efavirenz 600 mg than in control subjects. Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: Adverse reactions that occurred in at least 5% of treatment-experienced or treatment-naive subjects receiving emtricitabine or tenofovir DF with other antiretroviral agents in clinical trials include arthralgia, increased cough, dyspepsia, fever, myalgia, pain, abdominal pain, back pain, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy (including peripheral neuritis and neuropathy), pneumonia, rhinitis and rash event (including rash, pruritus, maculopapular rash, urticaria, vesiculobullous rash, pustular rash and allergic reaction). Skin discoloration has been reported with higher frequency among emtricitabine-treated subjects; it was manifested by hyperpigmentation on the palms and/or soles and was generally mild and asymptomatic. The mechanism and clinical significance are unknown. Clinical Trials in Pediatric Subjects Efavirenz: In a pediatric clinical trial in 57 NRTI-experienced subjects aged 3 to 16 years, the type and frequency of adverse experiences was generally similar to that of adult subjects with the exception of a higher incidence of rash, which was reported in 46% (26/57) of pediatric subjects compared to 26% of adults, and a higher frequency of Grade 3 or 4 rash reported in 5% (3/57) of pediatric subjects compared to 0.9% of adults [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. For additional information, please consult the SUSTIVA prescribing information. Emtricitabine: In addition to the adverse reactions reported in adults, anemia and hyperpigmentation were observed in 7% and 32%, respectively, of pediatric subjects (3 months to less than 18 years of age) who received treatment with emtricitabine in the larger of two open-label, uncontrolled pediatric trials (N=116). For additional information, please consult the EMTRIVA prescribing information. Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: In a pediatric clinical trial conducted in subjects 12 to less than 18 years of age, the adverse reactions observed in pediatric subjects who received treatment with tenofovir DF were consistent with those observed in clinical trials of tenofovir DF in adults [See Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: Laboratory abnormalities observed in Study 934 were generally consistent with those seen in previous trials (Table 3). Table 3 Significant Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in ≥1% of Subjects in Either Treatment Group in Study 934 (0–144 Weeks) FTC + TDF + EFVFrom Weeks 96 to 144 of the trial, subjects received emtricitabine/tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz in place of emtricitabine + tenofovir DF with efavirenz. AZT/3TC + EFV N=257 N=254 Any ≥ Grade 3 Laboratory Abnormality 30% 26% Fasting Cholesterol (>240 mg/dL) 22% 24% Creatine Kinase (M: >990 U/L) (F: >845 U/L) 9% 7% Serum Amylase (>175 U/L) 8% 4% Alkaline Phosphatase (>550 U/L) 1% 0% AST (M: >180 U/L) (F: >170 U/L) 3% 3% ALT (M: >215 U/L) (F: >170 U/L) 2% 3% Hemoglobin (<8.0 mg/dL) 0% 4% Hyperglycemia (>250 mg/dL) 2% 1% Hematuria (>75 RBC/HPF) 3% 2% Glycosuria (≥3+) <1% 1% Neutrophils (<750/mm3) 3% 5% Fasting Triglycerides (>750 mg/dL) 4% 2% Laboratory abnormalities observed in Study 073 were generally consistent with those in Study 934. In addition to the laboratory abnormalities described for Study 934 (Table 3), Grade 3/4 laboratory abnormalities of increased bilirubin (greater than 2.5 × upper limit of normal (ULN)), increased pancreatic amylase (greater than 2.0 × ULN), increased or decreased serum glucose (less than 40 or greater than 250 mg/dL), and increased serum lipase (greater than 2.0 × ULN) occurred in up to 3% of subjects treated with emtricitabine or tenofovir DF with other antiretroviral agents in clinical trials. Hepatic Events: In Study 934, 19 subjects treated with efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir DF and 20 subjects treated with efavirenz and fixed-dose zidovudine/lamivudine were hepatitis B surface antigen or hepatitis C antibody positive. Among these coinfected subjects, one subject (1/19) in the efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir DF arm had elevations in transaminases to greater than five times ULN through 144 weeks. In the fixed-dose zidovudine/lamivudine arm, two subjects (2/20) had elevations in transaminases to greater than five times ULN through 144 weeks. No HBV and/or HCV coinfected subject discontinued from the trial due to hepatobiliary disorders [See Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of efavirenz, emtricitabine, or tenofovir DF. Because postmarketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Efavirenz: Cardiac Disorders Palpitations Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Tinnitus, vertigo Endocrine Disorders Gynecomastia Eye Disorders Abnormal vision Gastrointestinal Disorders Constipation, malabsorption General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Asthenia Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatic enzyme increase, hepatic failure, hepatitis. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, including cases in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors, were characterized by a fulminant course, progressing in some cases to transplantation or death. Immune System Disorders Allergic reactions Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Redistribution/accumulation of body fat [See Warnings and Precautions (5.14)], hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia, myalgia, myopathy Nervous System Disorders Abnormal coordination, ataxia, cerebellar coordination and balance disturbances, convulsions, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, neuropathy, tremor Psychiatric Disorders Aggressive reactions, agitation, delusions, emotional lability, mania, neurosis, paranoia, psychosis, suicide Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Flushing, erythema multiforme, photoallergic dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome Emtricitabine: No postmarketing adverse reactions have been identified for inclusion in this section. Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: Immune System Disorders Allergic reaction, including angioedema Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Lactic acidosis, hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders Pancreatitis, increased amylase, abdominal pain Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatic steatosis, hepatitis, increased liver enzymes (most commonly AST, ALT, gamma GT) Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and which may contribute to fractures), muscular weakness, myopathy Renal and Urinary Disorders Acute renal failure, renal failure, acute tubular necrosis, Fanconi syndrome, proximal renal tubulopathy, interstitial nephritis (including acute cases), nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, renal insufficiency, increased creatinine, proteinuria, polyuria General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Asthenia The following adverse reactions, listed under the body system headings above, may occur as a consequence of proximal renal tubulopathy: rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia, hypokalemia, muscular weakness, myopathy, hypophosphatemia."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious psychiatric symptoms: Immediate medical evaluation is recommended. (5.5, 6.1) Nervous system symptoms (NSS): NSS are frequent, usually begin 1–2 days after initiating therapy and resolve in 2–4 weeks. Dosing at bedtime may improve tolerability. NSS are not predictive of onset of psychiatric symptoms. (2, 5.6) New onset or worsening renal impairment: Can include acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome. Assess creatinine clearance (CrCl) before initiating treatment with ATRIPLA. Monitor CrCl and serum phosphorus in patients at risk. Avoid administering ATRIPLA with concurrent or recent use of nephrotoxic drugs. (5.7) Pregnancy: Fetal harm can occur when administered to a pregnant woman during the first trimester. Women should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus. A pregnancy registry is available. (5.8, 8.1) Rash: Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.9, 6.1) Hepatotoxicity: Monitor liver function tests before and during treatment in patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C coinfection, marked transaminase elevations, or who are taking medications associated with liver toxicity. Among reported cases of hepatic failure, a few occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease. (5.10, 6.3, 8.6) Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD): Consider assessment of BMD in patients with a history of pathological fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss. (5.11) Convulsions: Use caution in patients with a history of seizures. (5.12) Immune reconstitution syndrome: May necessitate further evaluation and treatment. (5.13) Redistribution/accumulation of body fat: Observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. (5.14) Coadministration with other products: Do not use with drugs containing emtricitabine or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate including COMPLERA, EMTRIVA, STRIBILD, TRUVADA, or VIREAD; or with drugs containing lamivudine. SUSTIVA (efavirenz) should not be coadministered with ATRIPLA unless required for dose-adjustment when coadministered with rifampin. (5.4) Do not administer in combination with HEPSERA. (5.2) 5.1 Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs including tenofovir DF, a component of ATRIPLA, in combination with other antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women. Obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for liver disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Treatment with ATRIPLA should be suspended in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). 5.2 Patients Coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV It is recommended that all patients with HIV-1 be tested for the presence of chronic HBV before initiating antiretroviral therapy. ATRIPLA is not approved for the treatment of chronic HBV infection, and the safety and efficacy of ATRIPLA have not been established in patients coinfected with HBV and HIV-1. Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are coinfected with HBV and HIV-1 and have discontinued emtricitabine or tenofovir DF, two of the components of ATRIPLA. In some patients infected with HBV and treated with emtricitabine, the exacerbations of hepatitis B were associated with liver decompensation and liver failure. Patients who are coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV should be closely monitored with both clinical and laboratory follow up for at least several months after stopping treatment with ATRIPLA. If appropriate, initiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted. ATRIPLA should not be administered with HEPSERA® (adefovir dipivoxil) [See Drug Interactions (7.2)]. 5.3 Drug Interactions Efavirenz plasma concentrations may be altered by substrates, inhibitors, or inducers of CYP3A. Likewise, efavirenz may alter plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2B6 [See Contraindications (4.2), Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.4 Coadministration with Related Products Related drugs not for coadministration with ATRIPLA include COMPLERA® (emtricitabine/rilpivirine/tenofovir DF), EMTRIVA® (emtricitabine), STRIBILD® (elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF), TRUVADA® (emtricitabine/tenofovir DF), and VIREAD® (tenofovir DF), which contain the same active components as ATRIPLA. SUSTIVA® (efavirenz) should not be coadministered with ATRIPLA unless needed for dose-adjustment (e.g. with rifampin) [See Dosage and Administration (2), Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine, ATRIPLA should not be coadministered with drugs containing lamivudine, including Combivir (lamivudine/zidovudine), Epivir, or Epivir-HBV (lamivudine), Epzicom (abacavir sulfate/lamivudine), or Trizivir (abacavir sulfate/lamivudine/zidovudine). 5.5 Psychiatric Symptoms Serious psychiatric adverse experiences have been reported in patients treated with efavirenz. In controlled trials of 1008 subjects treated with regimens containing efavirenz for a mean of 2.1 years and 635 subjects treated with control regimens for a mean of 1.5 years, the frequency (regardless of causality) of specific serious psychiatric events among subjects who received efavirenz or control regimens, respectively, were: severe depression (2.4%, 0.9%), suicidal ideation (0.7%, 0.3%), nonfatal suicide attempts (0.5%, 0%), aggressive behavior (0.4%, 0.5%), paranoid reactions (0.4%, 0.3%), and manic reactions (0.2%, 0.3%). When psychiatric symptoms similar to those noted above were combined and evaluated as a group in a multifactorial analysis of data from Study AI266006 (006), treatment with efavirenz was associated with an increase in the occurrence of these selected psychiatric symptoms. Other factors associated with an increase in the occurrence of these psychiatric symptoms were history of injection drug use, psychiatric history, and receipt of psychiatric medication at trial entry; similar associations were observed in both the efavirenz and control treatment groups. In Study 006, onset of new serious psychiatric symptoms occurred throughout the trial for both efavirenz-treated and control-treated subjects. One percent of efavirenz-treated subjects discontinued or interrupted treatment because of one or more of these selected psychiatric symptoms. There have also been occasional postmarketing reports of death by suicide, delusions, and psychosis-like behavior, although a causal relationship to the use of efavirenz cannot be determined from these reports. Patients with serious psychiatric adverse experiences should seek immediate medical evaluation to assess the possibility that the symptoms may be related to the use of efavirenz, and if so, to determine whether the risks of continued therapy outweigh the benefits [See Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.6 Nervous System Symptoms Fifty-three percent (531/1008) of subjects receiving efavirenz in controlled trials reported central nervous system symptoms (any grade, regardless of causality) compared to 25% (156/635) of subjects receiving control regimens. These symptoms included dizziness (28.1% of the 1008 subjects), insomnia (16.3%), impaired concentration (8.3%), somnolence (7.0%), abnormal dreams (6.2%), and hallucinations (1.2%). Other reported symptoms were euphoria, confusion, agitation, amnesia, stupor, abnormal thinking, and depersonalization. The majority of these symptoms were mild-moderate (50.7%); symptoms were severe in 2.0% of subjects. Overall, 2.1% of subjects discontinued therapy as a result. These symptoms usually begin during the first or second day of therapy and generally resolve after the first 2–4 weeks of therapy. After 4 weeks of therapy, the prevalence of nervous system symptoms of at least moderate severity ranged from 5% to 9% in subjects treated with regimens containing efavirenz and from 3% to 5% in subjects treated with a control regimen. Patients should be informed that these common symptoms were likely to improve with continued therapy and were not predictive of subsequent onset of the less frequent psychiatric symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Dosing at bedtime may improve the tolerability of these nervous system symptoms [See Dosage and Administration (2)]. Analysis of long-term data from Study 006, (median follow-up 180 weeks, 102 weeks, and 76 weeks for subjects treated with efavirenz + zidovudine + lamivudine, efavirenz + indinavir, and indinavir + zidovudine + lamivudine, respectively) showed that, beyond 24 weeks of therapy, the incidences of new-onset nervous system symptoms among efavirenz-treated subjects were generally similar to those in the indinavir-containing control arm. Patients receiving ATRIPLA should be alerted to the potential for additive central nervous system effects when ATRIPLA is used concomitantly with alcohol or psychoactive drugs. Patients who experience central nervous system symptoms such as dizziness, impaired concentration, and/or drowsiness should avoid potentially hazardous tasks such as driving or operating machinery. 5.7 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment Emtricitabine and tenofovir are principally eliminated by the kidney; however, efavirenz is not. Since ATRIPLA is a combination product and the dose of the individual components cannot be altered, patients with creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min should not receive ATRIPLA. Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome (renal tubular injury with severe hypophosphatemia), has been reported with the use of tenofovir DF [See Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. It is recommended that creatinine clearance be calculated in all patients prior to initiating therapy and as clinically appropriate during therapy with ATRIPLA. Routine monitoring of calculated creatinine clearance and serum phosphorus should be performed in patients at risk for renal impairment, including patients who have previously experienced renal events while receiving HEPSERA. ATRIPLA should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent. 5.8 Reproductive Risk Potential Pregnancy Category D: Efavirenz may cause fetal harm when administered during the first trimester to a pregnant woman. Pregnancy should be avoided in women receiving ATRIPLA. Barrier contraception must always be used in combination with other methods of contraception (e.g., oral or other hormonal contraceptives). Because of the long half-life of efavirenz, use of adequate contraceptive measures for 12 weeks after discontinuation of ATRIPLA is recommended. Women of childbearing potential should undergo pregnancy testing before initiation of ATRIPLA. If this drug is used during the first trimester of pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus. There are no adequate and well-controlled trials of ATRIPLA in pregnant women. ATRIPLA should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus, such as in pregnant women without other therapeutic options [See Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.9 Rash In controlled clinical trials, 26% (266/1008) of subjects treated with 600 mg efavirenz experienced new-onset skin rash compared with 17% (111/635) of subjects treated in control groups. Rash associated with blistering, moist desquamation, or ulceration occurred in 0.9% (9/1008) of subjects treated with efavirenz. The incidence of Grade 4 rash (e.g., erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) in subjects treated with efavirenz in all trials and expanded access was 0.1%. Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 2 weeks of initiating therapy with efavirenz (median time to onset of rash in adults was 11 days) and, in most subjects continuing therapy with efavirenz, rash resolves within 1 month (median duration, 16 days). The discontinuation rate for rash in clinical trials was 1.7% (17/1008). ATRIPLA can be reinitiated in patients interrupting therapy because of rash. ATRIPLA should be discontinued in patients developing severe rash associated with blistering, desquamation, mucosal involvement, or fever. Appropriate antihistamines and/or corticosteroids may improve the tolerability and hasten the resolution of rash. For patients who have had a life-threatening cutaneous reaction (eg, Stevens-Johnson syndrome), alternative therapy should be considered [See also Contraindications (4.1)]. Experience with efavirenz in subjects who discontinued other antiretroviral agents of the NNRTI class is limited. Nineteen subjects who discontinued nevirapine because of rash have been treated with efavirenz. Nine of these subjects developed mild-to-moderate rash while receiving therapy with efavirenz, and two of these subjects discontinued because of rash. Rash was reported in 26 of 57 pediatric subjects (46%) treated with efavirenz [See Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. One pediatric subject experienced Grade 3 rash (confluent rash with fever), and two subjects had Grade 4 rash (erythema multiforme). The median time to onset of rash in pediatric subjects was 8 days. Prophylaxis with appropriate antihistamines before initiating therapy with ATRIPLA in pediatric patients should be considered. 5.10 Hepatotoxicity Monitoring of liver enzymes before and during treatment is recommended for patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C infection; patients with marked transaminase elevations; and patients treated with other medications associated with liver toxicity [See also Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors [See Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. Liver enzyme monitoring should also be considered for patients without pre-existing hepatic dysfunction or other risk factors. In patients with persistent elevations of serum transaminases to greater than five times the upper limit of the normal range, the benefit of continued therapy with ATRIPLA needs to be weighed against the unknown risks of significant liver toxicity [See Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.11 Decreases in Bone Mineral Density Assessment of bone mineral density (BMD) should be considered for patients who have a history of pathologic bone fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss. Although the effect of supplementation with calcium and vitamin D was not studied, such supplementation may be beneficial for all patients. If bone abnormalities are suspected then appropriate consultation should be obtained. In a 144-week trial of treatment-naive adult subjects receiving tenofovir DF, decreases in BMD were seen at the lumbar spine and hip in both arms of the trial. At Week 144, there was a significantly greater mean percentage decrease from baseline in BMD at the lumbar spine in subjects receiving tenofovir DF + lamivudine + efavirenz compared with subjects receiving stavudine + lamivudine + efavirenz. Changes in BMD at the hip were similar between the two treatment groups. In both groups, the majority of the reduction in BMD occurred in the first 24–48 weeks of the trial and this reduction was sustained through 144 weeks. Twenty-eight percent of tenofovir DF-treated subjects vs. 21% of the comparator subjects lost at least 5% of BMD at the spine or 7% of BMD at the hip. Clinically relevant fractures (excluding fingers and toes) were reported in 4 subjects in the tenofovir DF group and 6 subjects in the comparator group. Tenofovir DF was associated with significant increases in biochemical markers of bone metabolism (serum bone-specific alkaline phosphatase, serum osteocalcin, serum C-telopeptide, and urinary N-telopeptide), suggesting increased bone turnover. Serum parathyroid hormone levels and 1,25 Vitamin D levels were also higher in subjects receiving tenofovir DF. In a clinical trial of HIV-1 infected pediatric subjects 12 years of age and older (Study 321), bone effects were similar to adult subjects. Under normal circumstances BMD increases rapidly in this age group. In this trial, the mean rate of bone gain was less in the tenofovir DF-treated group compared to the placebo group. Six tenofovir DF-treated subjects and one placebo-treated subject had significant (greater than 4%) lumbar spine BMD loss at 48 weeks. Among 28 subjects receiving 96 weeks of tenofovir DF, Z-scores declined by -0.341 for lumbar spine and -0.458 for total body. Skeletal growth (height) appeared to be unaffected. Markers of bone turnover in tenofovir DF-treated pediatric subjects 12 years of age and older suggest increased bone turnover, consistent with the effects observed in adults. The effects of tenofovir DF-associated changes in BMD and biochemical markers on long-term bone health and future fracture risk are unknown. For additional information, consult the VIREAD prescribing information. Cases of osteomalacia (associated with proximal renal tubulopathy and which may contribute to fractures) have been reported in association with the use of tenofovir DF [See Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. 5.12 Convulsions Convulsions have been observed in patients receiving efavirenz, generally in the presence of known medical history of seizures. Caution must be taken in any patient with a history of seizures. Patients who are receiving concomitant anticonvulsant medications primarily metabolized by the liver, such as phenytoin and phenobarbital, may require periodic monitoring of plasma levels [See Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.13 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including the components of ATRIPLA. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections [such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis], which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution, however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.14 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and \"cushingoid appearance\" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Efavirenz&limit=1&skip=4
Page 4 of 7
        "generic_name": [
          "EFAVIRENZ, EMTRICITABINE, AND TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Atripla"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS This section describes clinically relevant drug interactions with ATRIPLA. Drug interaction trials are described elsewhere in the labeling [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Efavirenz: Coadministration of efavirenz can alter the concentrations of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentrations of efavirenz. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered before and during therapy. (4.2, 7.1, 12.3) Didanosine: Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate increases didanosine concentrations. Use with caution and monitor for evidence of didanosine toxicity (e.g., pancreatitis, neuropathy) when coadministered. Consider dose reductions or discontinuations of didanosine if warranted. (7.2) HIV-1 protease inhibitors: Coadministration of ATRIPLA with either lopinavir/ritonavir or darunavir and ritonavir increases tenofovir concentrations. Monitor for evidence of tenofovir toxicity. Coadministration of ATRIPLA with either atazanavir or atazanavir and ritonavir is not recommended. (7.3) 7.1 Efavirenz Efavirenz has been shown in vivo to induce CYP3A and CYP2B6. Other compounds that are substrates of CYP3A or CYP2B6 may have decreased plasma concentrations when coadministered with efavirenz. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity (e.g., phenobarbital, rifampin, rifabutin) would be expected to increase the clearance of efavirenz, resulting in lowered plasma concentrations [See Dosage and Administration (2)]. 7.2 Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Since emtricitabine and tenofovir are primarily eliminated by the kidneys, coadministration of ATRIPLA with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion may increase serum concentrations of emtricitabine, tenofovir, and/or other renally eliminated drugs. Some examples include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, adefovir dipivoxil, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, valganciclovir, aminoglycosides (e.g., gentamicin), and high-dose or multiple NSAIDs [See Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Coadministration of tenofovir DF and didanosine should be undertaken with caution and patients receiving this combination should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. Didanosine should be discontinued in patients who develop didanosine-associated adverse reactions [for didanosine dosing adjustment recommendations, see Table 3]. Suppression of CD4+ cell counts has been observed in patients receiving tenofovir DF with didanosine 400 mg daily. Darunavir with ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir have been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations. Tenofovir DF is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP) transporters. When tenofovir DF is coadministered with an inhibitor of these transporters, an increase in absorption may be observed. Patients receiving darunavir with ritonavir and ATRIPLA, or lopinavir/ritonavir with ATRIPLA, should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. ATRIPLA should be discontinued in patients who develop tenofovir-associated adverse reactions [See Table 3]. Coadministration of atazanavir with ATRIPLA is not recommended since coadministration of atazanavir with either efavirenz or tenofovir DF has been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of atazanavir. Also, atazanavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations. There are insufficient data to support dosing recommendations for atazanavir or atazanavir/ritonavir in combination with ATRIPLA [See Table 3]. 7.3 Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Other important drug interaction information for ATRIPLA is summarized in Table 3. The drug interactions described are based on trials conducted with either ATRIPLA, the components of ATRIPLA (efavirenz, emtricitabine or tenofovir DF) as individual agents, or are potential drug interactions [for pharmacokinetic data see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Tables 4–7]. The tables include potentially significant interactions, but are not all inclusive. Table 3 Established and Other Potentially SignificantThis table is not all inclusive. Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Trials or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect Clinical Comment HIV antiviral agents Protease inhibitor: atazanavir ↓atazanavir ↑ tenofovir Coadministration of atazanavir with ATRIPLA is not recommended. Coadministration of atazanavir with either efavirenz or tenofovir DF decreases plasma concentrations of atazanavir. The combined effect of efavirenz plus tenofovir DF on atazanavir plasma concentrations is not known. Also, atazanavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations. There are insufficient data to support dosing recommendations for atazanavir or atazanavir/ritonavir in combination with ATRIPLA. Protease inhibitor: fosamprenavir calcium ↓ amprenavir Fosamprenavir (unboosted): Appropriate doses of fosamprenavir and ATRIPLA with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Fosamprenavir/ritonavir: An additional 100 mg/day (300 mg total) of ritonavir is recommended when ATRIPLA is administered with fosamprenavir/ritonavir once daily. No change in the ritonavir dose is required when ATRIPLA is administered with fosamprenavir plus ritonavir twice daily. Protease inhibitor: indinavir ↓ indinavir The optimal dose of indinavir, when given in combination with efavirenz, is not known. Increasing the indinavir dose to 1000 mg every 8 hours does not compensate for the increased indinavir metabolism due to efavirenz. Protease inhibitor: lopinavir/ritonavir ↓ lopinavir ↑ tenofovir Do not use once daily administration of lopinavir/ritonavir. Dose increase of lopinavir/ritonavir is recommended for all patients when coadministered with efavirenz. Refer to the full prescribing information for lopinavir/ritonavir for guidance on coadministration with efavirenz- or tenofovir-containing regimens, such as ATRIPLA. Patients should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. Protease inhibitor: ritonavir ↑ ritonavir ↑ efavirenz When ritonavir 500 mg every 12 hours was coadministered with efavirenz 600 mg once daily, the combination was associated with a higher frequency of adverse clinical experiences (e.g., dizziness, nausea, paresthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes). Monitoring of liver enzymes is recommended when ATRIPLA is used in combination with ritonavir. Protease inhibitor: saquinavir ↓ saquinavir Appropriate doses of the combination of efavirenz and saquinavir/ritonavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. CCR5 co-receptor antagonist: maraviroc ↓ maraviroc Efavirenz decreases plasma concentrations of maraviroc. Refer to the full prescribing information for maraviroc for guidance on coadministration with ATRIPLA. NRTI: didanosine ↑ didanosine Coadministration of ATRIPLA and didanosine should be undertaken with caution and patients receiving this combination should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions including pancreatitis, lactic acidosis, and neuropathy. A dose reduction of didanosine is recommended when coadministered with tenofovir DF. For additional information on coadministration with tenofovir DF-containing products, please refer to the didanosine prescribing information. NNRTI: Other NNRTIs ↑ or ↓ efavirenz and/or NNRTI Combining two NNRTIs has not been shown to be beneficial. ATRIPLA contains efavirenz and should not be coadministered with other NNRTIs. Integrase strand transfer inhibitor: raltegravir ↓ raltegravir Efavirenz reduces plasma concentrations of raltegravir. The clinical significance of this interaction has not been directly assessed. Hepatitis C antiviral agents Protease inhibitor: boceprevir ↓ boceprevir Plasma trough concentrations of boceprevir were decreased when boceprevir was coadministered with efavirenz, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect. The combination should be avoided. Protease inhibitor: simeprevir ↓ simeprevir ↔ efavirenz Concomitant administration of simeprevir with efavirenz is not recommended because it may result in loss of therapeutic effect of simeprevir. NS5A inhibitor/NS5B polymerase inhibitor : ledipasvir/sofosbuvir ↑ tenofovir Patients receiving ATRIPLA and HARVONI® (ledipasvir/sofosbuvir) concomitantly should be monitored for adverse reactions associated with tenofovir DF. Other agents Anticoagulant: warfarin ↑ or ↓ warfarin Plasma concentrations and effects potentially increased or decreased by efavirenz. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine ↓ carbamazepine ↓ efavirenz There are insufficient data to make a dose recommendation for ATRIPLA. Alternative anticonvulsant treatment should be used. phenytoin phenobarbital ↓ anticonvulsant ↓ efavirenz Potential for reduction in anticonvulsant and/or efavirenz plasma levels; periodic monitoring of anticonvulsant plasma levels should be conducted. Antidepressants: bupropion ↓ buproprion The effect of efavirenz on bupropion exposure is thought to be due to the induction of bupropion metabolism. Increases in bupropion dosage should be guided by clinical response, but the maximum recommended dose of bupropion should not be exceeded. sertraline ↓ sertraline Increases in sertraline dose should be guided by clinical response. Antifungals: itraconazole ↓ itraconazole ↓ hydroxy-itraconazole Since no dose recommendation for itraconazole can be made, alternative antifungal treatment should be considered. ketoconazole ↓ ketoconazole Drug interaction trials with ATRIPLA and ketoconazole have not been conducted. Efavirenz has the potential to decrease plasma concentrations of ketoconazole. posaconazole ↓ posaconazole Avoid concomitant use unless the benefit outweighs the risks. Anti-infective: clarithromycin ↓ clarithromycin ↑ 14-OH metabolite Clinical significance unknown. In uninfected volunteers, 46% developed rash while receiving efavirenz and clarithromycin. No dose adjustment of ATRIPLA is recommended when given with clarithromycin. Alternatives to clarithromycin, such as azithromycin, should be considered. Other macrolide antibiotics, such as erythromycin, have not been studied in combination with ATRIPLA. Antimycobacterial: rifabutin ↓ rifabutin Increase daily dose of rifabutin by 50%. Consider doubling the rifabutin dose in regimens where rifabutin is given 2 or 3 times a week. rifampin ↓ efavirenz If ATRIPLA is coadministered with rifampin to patients weighing 50 kg or more, an additional 200 mg/day of efavirenz is recommended. Antimalarials: artemether/lumefantrine ↓ artemether ↓ dihydroartemisinin ↓ lumefantrine Artemether/lumefantrine should be used cautiously with ATRIPLA because decreased artemether, dihydroartemisinin (active metabolite of artemether), and/or lumefantrine concentrations may result in a decrease of antimalarial efficacy of artemether/lumefantrine. Calcium channel blockers: diltiazem ↓ diltiazem ↓ desacetyl diltiazem ↓ N-monodes-methyl diltiazem Diltiazem dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for diltiazem). No dose adjustment of ATRIPLA is necessary when administered with diltiazem. Others (e.g., felodipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, verapamil) ↓ calcium channel blocker No data are available on the potential interactions of efavirenz with other calcium channel blockers that are substrates of CYP3A. The potential exists for reduction in plasma concentrations of the calcium channel blocker. Dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for the calcium channel blocker). HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: atorvastatin pravastatin simvastatin ↓ atorvastatin ↓ pravastatin ↓ simvastatin Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin decreased with efavirenz. Consult the full prescribing information for the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor for guidance on individualizing the dose. Hormonal contraceptives: Oral: ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate ↓ active metabolites of norgestimate A reliable method of barrier contraception must be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. Efavirenz had no effect on ethinyl estradiol concentrations, but progestin levels (norelgestromin and levonorgestrel) were markedly decreased. No effect of ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate on efavirenz plasma concentrations was observed. Implant: etonogestrel ↓ etonogestrel A reliable method of barrier contraception must be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. The interaction between etonogestrel and efavirenz has not been studied. Decreased exposure of etonogestrel may be expected. There have been postmarketing reports of contraceptive failure with etonogestrel in efavirenz-exposed patients. Immunosuppressants: cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, and others metabolized by CYP3A ↓ immuno-suppressant Decreased exposure of the immunosuppressant may be expected due to CYP3A induction by efavirenz. These immunosuppressants are not anticipated to affect exposure of efavirenz. Dose adjustments of the immunosuppressant may be required. Close monitoring of immunosuppressant concentrations for at least 2 weeks (until stable concentrations are reached) is recommended when starting or stopping treatment with ATRIPLA. Narcotic analgesic: methadone ↓ methadone Coadministration of efavirenz in HIV-1 infected individuals with a history of injection drug use resulted in decreased plasma levels of methadone and signs of opiate withdrawal. Methadone dose was increased by a mean of 22% to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Patients should be monitored for signs of withdrawal and their methadone dose increased as required to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. 7.4 Efavirenz Assay Interference Cannabinoid Test Interaction: Efavirenz does not bind to cannabinoid receptors. False-positive urine cannabinoid test results have been reported with some screening assays in uninfected and HIV-infected subjects receiving efavirenz. Confirmation of positive screening tests for cannabinoids by a more specific method is recommended."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 10%) observed in an active-controlled clinical trial of efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir DF are diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, headache, dizziness, depression, insomnia, abnormal dreams, and rash. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gilead Sciences, Inc. at 1-800-GILEAD-5 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: The following adverse reactions are discussed in other sections of the labeling: Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis [See Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Severe Acute Exacerbations of Hepatitis B [See Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Psychiatric Symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Nervous System Symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment [See Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Rash [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Hepatotoxicity [See Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Bone Effects of Tenofovir DF [See Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Immune Reconstitution Syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions (5.13)]. Drug Interactions [See Contraindications (4.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Drug Interactions (7)]. For additional safety information about SUSTIVA (efavirenz), EMTRIVA (emtricitabine), or VIREAD (tenofovir DF) in combination with other antiretroviral agents, consult the prescribing information for these products. 6.1 Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Clinical Trials in Adult Subjects Study 934 Study 934 was an open-label active-controlled trial in which 511 antiretroviral-naive subjects received either emtricitabine + tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz (N=257) or zidovudine/lamivudine administered in combination with efavirenz (N=254). The most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 10%, any severity) occurring in Study 934 include diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, headache, dizziness, depression, insomnia, abnormal dreams, and rash. Adverse reactions observed in Study 934 were generally consistent with those seen in previous trials of the individual components (Table 1). Table 1 Selected Treatment-Emergent Adverse ReactionsFrequencies of adverse reactions are based on all treatment-emergent adverse events, regardless of relationship to study drug. (Grades 2–4) Reported in ≥5% in Either Treatment Group in Study 934 (0–144 Weeks) FTC + TDF + EFVFrom Weeks 96 to 144 of the trial, subjects received emtricitabine/tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz in place of emtricitabine + tenofovir DF with efavirenz. AZT/3TC + EFV N=257 N=254 Gastrointestinal Disorder Diarrhea 9% 5% Nausea 9% 7% Vomiting 2% 5% General Disorders and Administration Site Condition Fatigue 9% 8% Infections and Infestations Sinusitis 8% 4% Upper respiratory tract infections 8% 5% Nasopharyngitis 5% 3% Nervous System Disorders Headache 6% 5% Dizziness 8% 7% Psychiatric Disorders Anxiety 5% 4% Depression 9% 7% Insomnia 5% 7% Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash EventRash event includes rash, exfoliative rash, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculopapular, rash pruritic, and rash vesicular. 7% 9% Study 073 In Study 073, subjects with stable, virologic suppression on antiretroviral therapy and no history of virologic failure were randomized to receive ATRIPLA or to stay on their baseline regimen. The adverse reactions observed in Study 073 were generally consistent with those seen in Study 934 and those seen with the individual components of ATRIPLA when each was administered in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Efavirenz, Emtricitabine, or Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate In addition to the adverse reactions in Study 934 and Study 073, the following adverse reactions were observed in clinical trials of efavirenz, emtricitabine, or tenofovir DF in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Efavirenz: The most significant adverse reactions observed in subjects treated with efavirenz are nervous system symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6)], psychiatric symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)], and rash [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Selected adverse reactions of moderate-to-severe intensity observed in greater than or equal to 2% of efavirenz-treated subjects in two controlled clinical trials included pain, impaired concentration, abnormal dreams, somnolence, anorexia, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, nervousness, and pruritus. Pancreatitis has also been reported, although a causal relationship with efavirenz has not been established. Asymptomatic increases in serum amylase levels were observed in a significantly higher number of subjects treated with efavirenz 600 mg than in control subjects. Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: Adverse reactions that occurred in at least 5% of treatment-experienced or treatment-naive subjects receiving emtricitabine or tenofovir DF with other antiretroviral agents in clinical trials include arthralgia, increased cough, dyspepsia, fever, myalgia, pain, abdominal pain, back pain, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy (including peripheral neuritis and neuropathy), pneumonia, rhinitis and rash event (including rash, pruritus, maculopapular rash, urticaria, vesiculobullous rash, pustular rash, and allergic reaction). Skin discoloration has been reported with higher frequency among emtricitabine-treated subjects; it was manifested by hyperpigmentation on the palms and/or soles and was generally mild and asymptomatic. The mechanism and clinical significance are unknown. Clinical Trials in Pediatric Subjects Efavirenz: Assessment of adverse reactions is based on three pediatric clinical trials in 182 HIV-1 infected pediatric subjects 3 months to 21 years of age, who received efavirenz in combination with other antiretroviral agents for a median of 123 weeks. The type and frequency of adverse reactions in the three trials were generally similar to that of adult subjects with the exception of a higher incidence of rash, which was reported in 32% (59/182) of pediatric subjects compared to 26% of adults, and a higher frequency of Grade 3 or 4 rash reported in 3% (6/182) of pediatric subjects compared to 0.9% of adults [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. For additional information, please consult the SUSTIVA prescribing information. Emtricitabine: In addition to the adverse reactions reported in adults, anemia and hyperpigmentation were observed in 7% and 32%, respectively, of pediatric subjects (3 months to less than 18 years of age) who received treatment with emtricitabine in the larger of two open-label, uncontrolled pediatric trials (N=116). For additional information, please consult the EMTRIVA prescribing information. Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: In a pediatric clinical trial conducted in subjects 12 to less than 18 years of age, the adverse reactions observed in pediatric subjects who received treatment with tenofovir DF were consistent with those observed in clinical trials of tenofovir DF in adults [See Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: Laboratory abnormalities observed in Study 934 were generally consistent with those seen in previous trials (Table 2). Table 2 Significant Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in ≥1% of Subjects in Either Treatment Group in Study 934 (0–144 Weeks) FTC + TDF + EFVFrom Weeks 96 to 144 of the trial, subjects received emtricitabine/tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz in place of emtricitabine + tenofovir DF with efavirenz. AZT/3TC + EFV N=257 N=254 Any ≥ Grade 3 Laboratory Abnormality 30% 26% Fasting Cholesterol (>240 mg/dL) 22% 24% Creatine Kinase (M: >990 U/L) (F: >845 U/L) 9% 7% Serum Amylase (>175 U/L) 8% 4% Alkaline Phosphatase (>550 U/L) 1% 0% AST (M: >180 U/L) (F: >170 U/L) 3% 3% ALT (M: >215 U/L) (F: >170 U/L) 2% 3% Hemoglobin (<8.0 mg/dL) 0% 4% Hyperglycemia (>250 mg/dL) 2% 1% Hematuria (>75 RBC/HPF) 3% 2% Glycosuria (≥3+) <1% 1% Neutrophils (<750/mm3) 3% 5% Fasting Triglycerides (>750 mg/dL) 4% 2% Laboratory abnormalities observed in Study 073 were generally consistent with those in Study 934. In addition to the laboratory abnormalities described for Study 934 (Table 2), Grade 3/4 laboratory abnormalities of increased bilirubin (greater than 2.5 × upper limit of normal (ULN)), increased pancreatic amylase (greater than 2.0 × ULN), increased or decreased serum glucose (less than 40 or greater than 250 mg/dL), and increased serum lipase (greater than 2.0 × ULN) occurred in up to 3% of subjects treated with emtricitabine or tenofovir DF with other antiretroviral agents in clinical trials. Hepatic Events: In Study 934, 19 subjects treated with efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir DF and 20 subjects treated with efavirenz and fixed-dose zidovudine/lamivudine were hepatitis B surface antigen or hepatitis C antibody positive. Among these coinfected subjects, one subject (1/19) in the efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir DF arm had elevations in transaminases to greater than five times ULN through 144 weeks. In the fixed-dose zidovudine/lamivudine arm, two subjects (2/20) had elevations in transaminases to greater than five times ULN through 144 weeks. No HBV and/or HCV coinfected subject discontinued from the trial due to hepatobiliary disorders [See Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of efavirenz, emtricitabine, or tenofovir DF. Because postmarketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Efavirenz: Cardiac Disorders Palpitations Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Tinnitus, vertigo Endocrine Disorders Gynecomastia Eye Disorders Abnormal vision Gastrointestinal Disorders Constipation, malabsorption General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Asthenia Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatic enzyme increase, hepatic failure, hepatitis. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, including cases in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors, were characterized by a fulminant course, progressing in some cases to transplantation or death. Immune System Disorders Allergic reactions Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Redistribution/accumulation of body fat [See Warnings and Precautions (5.14)], hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia, myalgia, myopathy Nervous System Disorders Abnormal coordination, ataxia, cerebellar coordination and balance disturbances, convulsions, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, neuropathy, tremor Psychiatric Disorders Aggressive reactions, agitation, delusions, emotional lability, mania, neurosis, paranoia, psychosis, suicide Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Flushing, erythema multiforme, photoallergic dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome Emtricitabine: No postmarketing adverse reactions have been identified for inclusion in this section. Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: Immune System Disorders Allergic reaction, including angioedema Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Lactic acidosis, hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders Pancreatitis, increased amylase, abdominal pain Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatic steatosis, hepatitis, increased liver enzymes (most commonly AST, ALT, gamma GT) Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and which may contribute to fractures), muscular weakness, myopathy Renal and Urinary Disorders Acute renal failure, renal failure, acute tubular necrosis, Fanconi syndrome, proximal renal tubulopathy, interstitial nephritis (including acute cases), nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, renal insufficiency, increased creatinine, proteinuria, polyuria General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Asthenia The following adverse reactions, listed under the body system headings above, may occur as a consequence of proximal renal tubulopathy: rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia, hypokalemia, muscular weakness, myopathy, hypophosphatemia."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious psychiatric symptoms: Immediate medical evaluation is recommended. (5.5, 6.1) Nervous system symptoms (NSS): NSS are frequent, usually begin 1–2 days after initiating therapy and resolve in 2–4 weeks. Dosing at bedtime may improve tolerability. NSS are not predictive of onset of psychiatric symptoms. (2, 5.6) New onset or worsening renal impairment: Can include acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome. Assess estimated creatinine clearance before initiating treatment with ATRIPLA. In patients at risk for renal dysfunction, assess estimated creatinine clearance, serum phosphorus, urine glucose and urine protein before initiating treatment with ATRIPLA and periodically during treatment. Avoid administering ATRIPLA with concurrent or recent use of nephrotoxic drugs. (5.7) Pregnancy: Fetal harm may occur when administered to a pregnant woman during the first trimester. Women should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus. A pregnancy registry is available. (5.8, 8.1) Rash: Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.9, 6.1) Hepatotoxicity: Monitor liver function tests before and during treatment in patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C coinfection, marked transaminase elevations, or who are taking medications associated with liver toxicity. Among reported cases of hepatic failure, a few occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease. (5.10, 6.3, 8.6) Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD): Consider assessment of BMD in patients with a history of pathological fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss. (5.11) Convulsions: Use caution in patients with a history of seizures. (5.12) Immune reconstitution syndrome: May necessitate further evaluation and treatment. (5.13) Redistribution/accumulation of body fat: Observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. (5.14) Coadministration with other products: Do not use with drugs containing emtricitabine or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate including COMPLERA, EMTRIVA, STRIBILD, TRUVADA, or VIREAD; or with drugs containing lamivudine. SUSTIVA (efavirenz) should not be coadministered with ATRIPLA unless required for dose-adjustment when coadministered with rifampin. (5.4) Do not administer in combination with HEPSERA. (5.2) 5.1 Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs including tenofovir DF, a component of ATRIPLA, in combination with other antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women. Obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for liver disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Treatment with ATRIPLA should be suspended in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). 5.2 Patients Coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV It is recommended that all patients with HIV-1 be tested for the presence of chronic HBV before initiating antiretroviral therapy. ATRIPLA is not approved for the treatment of chronic HBV infection, and the safety and efficacy of ATRIPLA have not been established in patients coinfected with HBV and HIV-1. Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are coinfected with HBV and HIV-1 and have discontinued emtricitabine or tenofovir DF, two of the components of ATRIPLA. In some patients infected with HBV and treated with emtricitabine, the exacerbations of hepatitis B were associated with liver decompensation and liver failure. Patients who are coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV should be closely monitored with both clinical and laboratory follow-up for at least several months after stopping treatment with ATRIPLA. If appropriate, initiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted. ATRIPLA should not be administered with HEPSERA® (adefovir dipivoxil) [See Drug Interactions (7.2)]. 5.3 Drug Interactions Efavirenz plasma concentrations may be altered by substrates, inhibitors, or inducers of CYP3A. Likewise, efavirenz may alter plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2B6. The most prominent effect of efavirenz at steady-state is induction of CYP3A and CYP2B6. [ Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.4 Coadministration with Related Products Related drugs not for coadministration with ATRIPLA include COMPLERA® (emtricitabine/rilpivirine/tenofovir DF), EMTRIVA® (emtricitabine), STRIBILD® (elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF), TRUVADA® (emtricitabine/tenofovir DF), and VIREAD® (tenofovir DF), which contain the same active components as ATRIPLA. SUSTIVA® (efavirenz) should not be coadministered with ATRIPLA unless needed for dose-adjustment (e.g., with rifampin) [See Dosage and Administration (2), Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine, ATRIPLA should not be coadministered with drugs containing lamivudine, including Combivir (lamivudine/zidovudine), Epivir, or Epivir-HBV (lamivudine), Epzicom (abacavir sulfate/lamivudine), or Trizivir (abacavir sulfate/lamivudine/zidovudine). 5.5 Psychiatric Symptoms Serious psychiatric adverse experiences have been reported in patients treated with efavirenz. In controlled trials of 1008 subjects treated with regimens containing efavirenz for a mean of 2.1 years and 635 subjects treated with control regimens for a mean of 1.5 years, the frequency (regardless of causality) of specific serious psychiatric events among subjects who received efavirenz or control regimens, respectively, were: severe depression (2.4%, 0.9%), suicidal ideation (0.7%, 0.3%), nonfatal suicide attempts (0.5%, 0%), aggressive behavior (0.4%, 0.5%), paranoid reactions (0.4%, 0.3%), and manic reactions (0.2%, 0.3%). When psychiatric symptoms similar to those noted above were combined and evaluated as a group in a multifactorial analysis of data from Study AI266006 (006), treatment with efavirenz was associated with an increase in the occurrence of these selected psychiatric symptoms. Other factors associated with an increase in the occurrence of these psychiatric symptoms were history of injection drug use, psychiatric history, and receipt of psychiatric medication at trial entry; similar associations were observed in both the efavirenz and control treatment groups. In Study 006, onset of new serious psychiatric symptoms occurred throughout the trial for both efavirenz-treated and control-treated subjects. One percent of efavirenz-treated subjects discontinued or interrupted treatment because of one or more of these selected psychiatric symptoms. There have also been occasional postmarketing reports of death by suicide, delusions, and psychosis-like behavior, although a causal relationship to the use of efavirenz cannot be determined from these reports. Patients with serious psychiatric adverse experiences should seek immediate medical evaluation to assess the possibility that the symptoms may be related to the use of efavirenz, and if so, to determine whether the risks of continued therapy outweigh the benefits [See Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.6 Nervous System Symptoms Fifty-three percent (531/1008) of subjects receiving efavirenz in controlled trials reported central nervous system symptoms (any grade, regardless of causality) compared to 25% (156/635) of subjects receiving control regimens. These symptoms included dizziness (28.1% of the 1008 subjects), insomnia (16.3%), impaired concentration (8.3%), somnolence (7.0%), abnormal dreams (6.2%), and hallucinations (1.2%). Other reported symptoms were euphoria, confusion, agitation, amnesia, stupor, abnormal thinking, and depersonalization. The majority of these symptoms were mild-to-moderate (50.7%); symptoms were severe in 2.0% of subjects. Overall, 2.1% of subjects discontinued therapy as a result. These symptoms usually begin during the first or second day of therapy and generally resolve after the first 2–4 weeks of therapy. After 4 weeks of therapy, the prevalence of nervous system symptoms of at least moderate severity ranged from 5% to 9% in subjects treated with regimens containing efavirenz and from 3% to 5% in subjects treated with a control regimen. Patients should be informed that these common symptoms were likely to improve with continued therapy and were not predictive of subsequent onset of the less frequent psychiatric symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Dosing at bedtime may improve the tolerability of these nervous system symptoms [See Dosage and Administration (2)]. Analysis of long-term data from Study 006 (median follow-up 180 weeks, 102 weeks, and 76 weeks for subjects treated with efavirenz + zidovudine + lamivudine, efavirenz + indinavir, and indinavir + zidovudine + lamivudine, respectively) showed that, beyond 24 weeks of therapy, the incidences of new-onset nervous system symptoms among efavirenz-treated subjects were generally similar to those in the indinavir-containing control arm. Patients receiving ATRIPLA should be alerted to the potential for additive central nervous system effects when ATRIPLA is used concomitantly with alcohol or psychoactive drugs. Patients who experience central nervous system symptoms such as dizziness, impaired concentration, and/or drowsiness should avoid potentially hazardous tasks such as driving or operating machinery. 5.7 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment Emtricitabine and tenofovir are principally eliminated by the kidney; however, efavirenz is not. Since ATRIPLA is a combination product and the dose of the individual components cannot be altered, patients with estimated creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min should not receive ATRIPLA. Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome (renal tubular injury with severe hypophosphatemia), has been reported with the use of tenofovir DF [See Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. It is recommended that estimated creatinine clearance be assessed in all patients prior to initiating therapy and as clinically appropriate during therapy with ATRIPLA. In patients at risk of renal dysfunction, including patients who have previously experienced renal events while receiving HEPSERA, it is recommended that estimated creatinine clearance, serum phosphorus, urine glucose, and urine protein be assessed prior to initiation of ATRIPLA, and periodically during ATRIPLA therapy. ATRIPLA should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent (e.g., high-dose or multiple non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [NSAIDs]) [See Drug Interactions (7.2)]. Cases of acute renal failure after initiation of high dose or multiple NSAIDs have been reported in HIV-infected patients with risk factors for renal dysfunction who appeared stable on tenofovir DF. Some patients required hospitalization and renal replacement therapy. Alternatives to NSAIDs should be considered, if needed, in patients at risk for renal dysfunction. Persistent or worsening bone pain, pain in extremities, fractures and/or muscular pain or weakness may be manifestations of proximal renal tubulopathy and should prompt an evaluation of renal function in at-risk patients. 5.8 Reproductive Risk Potential Pregnancy Category D: Efavirenz may cause fetal harm when administered during the first trimester to a pregnant woman. Pregnancy should be avoided in women receiving ATRIPLA. Barrier contraception must always be used in combination with other methods of contraception (e.g., oral or other hormonal contraceptives). Because of the long half-life of efavirenz, use of adequate contraceptive measures for 12 weeks after discontinuation of ATRIPLA is recommended. Women of childbearing potential should undergo pregnancy testing before initiation of ATRIPLA. If this drug is used during the first trimester of pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus. There are no adequate and well-controlled trials of ATRIPLA in pregnant women. ATRIPLA should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus, such as in pregnant women without other therapeutic options [See Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.9 Rash In controlled clinical trials, 26% (266/1008) of adult subjects treated with 600 mg efavirenz experienced new-onset skin rash compared with 17% (111/635) of those treated in control groups. Rash associated with blistering, moist desquamation, or ulceration occurred in 0.9% (9/1008) of subjects treated with efavirenz. The incidence of Grade 4 rash (e.g., erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) in adult subjects treated with efavirenz in all trials and expanded access was 0.1%. Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 2 weeks of initiating therapy with efavirenz (median time to onset of rash in adults was 11 days) and, in most subjects continuing therapy with efavirenz, rash resolves within 1 month (median duration, 16 days). The discontinuation rate for rash in adult clinical trials was 1.7% (17/1008). ATRIPLA can be reinitiated in patients interrupting therapy because of rash. ATRIPLA should be discontinued in patients developing severe rash associated with blistering, desquamation, mucosal involvement, or fever. Appropriate antihistamines and/or corticosteroids may improve the tolerability and hasten the resolution of rash. For patients who have had a life-threatening cutaneous reaction (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome), alternative therapy should be considered [See Contraindications (4.1)]. Experience with efavirenz in subjects who discontinued other antiretroviral agents of the NNRTI class is limited. Nineteen subjects who discontinued nevirapine because of rash have been treated with efavirenz. Nine of these subjects developed mild-to-moderate rash while receiving therapy with efavirenz, and two of these subjects discontinued because of rash. Rash was reported in 59 of 182 pediatric subjects (32%) treated with efavirenz [See Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Two pediatric subjects experienced Grade 3 rash (confluent rash with fever, generalized rash), and four subjects had Grade 4 rash (erythema multiforme). The median time to onset of rash in pediatric subjects was 28 days (range 3–1642 days). Prophylaxis with appropriate antihistamines before initiating therapy with ATRIPLA in pediatric patients should be considered. 5.10 Hepatotoxicity Monitoring of liver enzymes before and during treatment is recommended for patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C infection; patients with marked transaminase elevations; and patients treated with other medications associated with liver toxicity [See also Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors [See Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. Liver enzyme monitoring should also be considered for patients without pre-existing hepatic dysfunction or other risk factors. In patients with persistent elevations of serum transaminases to greater than five times the upper limit of the normal range, the benefit of continued therapy with ATRIPLA needs to be weighed against the unknown risks of significant liver toxicity [See Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.11 Bone Effects of Tenofovir DF Bone Mineral Density: In clinical trials in HIV-1 infected adults, tenofovir DF was associated with slightly greater decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) and increases in biochemical markers of bone metabolism, suggesting increased bone turnover relative to comparators. Serum parathyroid hormone levels and 1,25 Vitamin D levels were also higher in subjects receiving tenofovir DF. Clinical trials evaluating tenofovir DF in pediatric and adolescent subjects were conducted. Under normal circumstances, BMD increases rapidly in pediatric patients. In HIV-1 infected subjects aged 2 years to less than 18 years, bone effects were similar to those observed in adult subjects and suggest increased bone turnover. Total body BMD gain was less in the tenofovir DF treated HIV-1 infected pediatric subjects as compared to the control groups. Similar trends were observed in chronic hepatitis B infected adolescent subjects aged 12 years to less than 18 years. In all pediatric trials, skeletal growth (height) appeared to be unaffected. For more information, consult the VIREAD prescribing information. The effects of tenofovir DF-associated changes in BMD and biochemical markers on long-term bone health and future fracture risk are unknown. Assessment of BMD should be considered for adult and pediatric patients who have a history of pathologic bone fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss. Although the effect of supplementation with calcium and vitamin D was not studied, such supplementation may be beneficial for all patients. If bone abnormalities are suspected then appropriate consultation should be obtained. Mineralization Defects: Cases of osteomalacia associated with proximal renal tubulopathy, manifested as bone pain or pain in extremities and which may contribute to fractures, have been reported in association with the use of tenofovir DF [See Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. Arthralgias and muscle pain or weakness have also been reported in cases of proximal renal tubulopathy. Hypophosphatemia and osteomalacia secondary to proximal renal tubulopathy should be considered in patients at risk of renal dysfunction who present with persistent or worsening bone or muscle symptoms while receiving products containing tenofovir DF [See Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. 5.12 Convulsions Convulsions have been observed in adult and pediatric patients receiving efavirenz, generally in the presence of known medical history of seizures. Caution must be taken in any patient with a history of seizures. Patients who are receiving concomitant anticonvulsant medications primarily metabolized by the liver, such as phenytoin and phenobarbital, may require periodic monitoring of plasma levels [See Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.13 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including the components of ATRIPLA. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections [such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis], which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution, however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.14 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and \"cushingoid appearance\" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Efavirenz&limit=1&skip=5
Page 5 of 7
        "generic_name": [
          "EFAVIRENZ"
        "brand_name": [
          "SUSTIVA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Coadministration of efavirenz can alter the concentrations of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentrations of efavirenz. The potential for drug-drug interactions should be considered before and during therapy. (7.1, 12.3) 7.1 Drug-Drug Interactions Efavirenz has been shown in vivo to induce CYP3A and CYP2B6. Other compounds that are substrates of CYP3A or CYP2B6 may have decreased plasma concentrations when coadministered with SUSTIVA. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity (eg, phenobarbital, rifampin, rifabutin) would be expected to increase the clearance of efavirenz resulting in lowered plasma concentrations [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) ]. Drug interactions with SUSTIVA are summarized in Table 5 [for pharmacokinetics data see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3, Tables 7 and 8) ]. This table includes potentially significant interactions, but is not all inclusive. Table 5: Established and Other Potentially Significant Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Studies or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect Clinical Comment * The interaction between SUSTIVA and the drug was evaluated in a clinical study. All other drug interactions shown are predicted. This table is not all-inclusive. HIV antiviral agents Protease inhibitor: Fosamprenavir calcium ↓ amprenavir Fosamprenavir (unboosted): Appropriate doses of the combinations with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Fosamprenavir/ritonavir: An additional 100 mg/day (300 mg total) of ritonavir is recommended when SUSTIVA is administered with fosamprenavir/ritonavir once daily. No change in the ritonavir dose is required when SUSTIVA is administered with fosamprenavir plus ritonavir twice daily. Protease inhibitor: Atazanavir ↓ atazanavir* Treatment-naive patients: When coadministered with SUSTIVA, the recommended dose of atazanavir is 400 mg with ritonavir 100 mg (together once daily with food) and SUSTIVA 600 mg (once daily on an empty stomach, preferably at bedtime). Treatment-experienced patients: Coadministration of SUSTIVA and atazanavir is not recommended. Protease inhibitor: Indinavir ↓ indinavir* The optimal dose of indinavir, when given in combination with SUSTIVA, is not known. Increasing the indinavir dose to 1000 mg every 8 hours does not compensate for the increased indinavir metabolism due to SUSTIVA. When indinavir at an increased dose (1000 mg every 8 hours) was given with SUSTIVA (600 mg once daily), the indinavir AUC and Cmin were decreased on average by 33-46% and 39-57%, respectively, compared to when indinavir (800 mg every 8 hours) was given alone. Protease inhibitor: Lopinavir/ritonavir ↓ lopinavir* Dose increase of lopinavir/ritonavir is recommended for all patients. Lopinavir/ritonavir tablets should not be administered once daily in combination with SUSTIVA. See the lopinavir/ritonavir prescribing information for dose adjustments of lopinavir/ritonavir when coadministered with efavirenz in adult and pediatric patients. Protease inhibitor: Ritonavir ↑ ritonavir* ↑ efavirenz* When ritonavir 500 mg q12h was coadministered with SUSTIVA 600 mg once daily, the combination was associated with a higher frequency of adverse clinical experiences (eg, dizziness, nausea, paresthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes). Monitoring of liver enzymes is recommended when SUSTIVA is used in combination with ritonavir. Protease inhibitor: Saquinavir ↓ saquinavir* Appropriate doses of the combination of SUSTIVA and saquinavir/ritonavir with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. NNRTI: Other NNRTIs ↑ or ↓ efavirenz and/or NNRTI Combining two NNRTIs has not been shown to be beneficial. SUSTIVA should not be coadministered with other NNRTIs. CCR5 co-receptor antagonist: Maraviroc ↓ maraviroc* Refer to the full prescribing information for maraviroc for guidance on coadministration with efavirenz. Hepatitis C antiviral agents Protease inhibitor: Boceprevir ↓ boceprevir* Plasma trough concentrations of boceprevir were decreased when boceprevir was coadministered with SUSTIVA, which may result in loss of therapeutic effect. The combination should be avoided. Protease inhibitor: Simeprevir ↓ simeprevir* ↔ efavirenz* Concomitant administration of simeprevir with SUSTIVA is not recommended because it may result in loss of therapeutic effect of simeprevir. Other agents Anticoagulant: Warfarin ↑ or ↓ warfarin Plasma concentrations and effects potentially increased or decreased by SUSTIVA. Anticonvulsants: Carbamazepine ↓ carbamazepine* ↓ efavirenz* There are insufficient data to make a dose recommendation for efavirenz. Alternative anticonvulsant treatment should be used. Phenytoin Phenobarbital ↓ anticonvulsant ↓ efavirenz Potential for reduction in anticonvulsant and/or efavirenz plasma levels; periodic monitoring of anticonvulsant plasma levels should be conducted. Antidepressants: Bupropion ↓ bupropion* The effect of efavirenz on bupropion exposure is thought to be due to the induction of bupropion metabolism. Increases in bupropion dosage should be guided by clinical response, but the maximum recommended dose of bupropion should not be exceeded. Sertraline ↓ sertraline* Increases in sertraline dosage should be guided by clinical response. Antifungals: Voriconazole ↓ voriconazole* ↑ efavirenz* SUSTIVA and voriconazole should not be coadministered at standard doses. Efavirenz significantly decreases voriconazole plasma concentrations, and coadministration may decrease the therapeutic effectiveness of voriconazole. Also, voriconazole significantly increases efavirenz plasma concentrations, which may increase the risk of SUSTIVA-associated side effects. When voriconazole is coadministered with SUSTIVA, voriconazole maintenance dose should be increased to 400 mg every 12 hours and SUSTIVA dose should be decreased to 300 mg once daily using the capsule formulation. SUSTIVA tablets must not be broken. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3, Tables 7 and 8) .] Itraconazole ↓ itraconazole* ↓ hydroxyitraconazole* Since no dose recommendation for itraconazole can be made, alternative antifungal treatment should be considered. Ketoconazole ↓ ketoconazole Drug interaction studies with SUSTIVA and ketoconazole have not been conducted. SUSTIVA has the potential to decrease plasma concentrations of ketoconazole. Posaconazole ↓ posaconazole* Avoid concomitant use unless the benefit outweighs the risks. Anti-infective: Clarithromycin ↓ clarithromycin* ↑ 14-OH metabolite* Plasma concentrations decreased by SUSTIVA; clinical significance unknown. In uninfected volunteers, 46% developed rash while receiving SUSTIVA and clarithromycin. No dose adjustment of SUSTIVA is recommended when given with clarithromycin. Alternatives to clarithromycin, such as azithromycin, should be considered (see Other Drugs , following table). Other macrolide antibiotics, such as erythromycin, have not been studied in combination with SUSTIVA. Antimycobacterials: Rifabutin ↓ rifabutin* Increase daily dose of rifabutin by 50%. Consider doubling the rifabutin dose in regimens where rifabutin is given 2 or 3 times a week. Rifampin ↓ efavirenz* If SUSTIVA is coadministered with rifampin to patients weighing 50 kg or more, an increase in the dose of SUSTIVA to 800 mg once daily is recommended. Antimalarials: Artemether/lumefantrine ↓ artemether* ↓ dihydroartemisinin* ↓ lumefantrine* Artemether/lumefantrine should be used cautiously with efavirenz because decreased artemether, dihydroartemisinin (active metabolite of artemether), and/or lumefantrine concentrations may result in a decrease of antimalarial efficacy of artemether/lumefantrine. Calcium channel blockers: Diltiazem ↓ diltiazem* ↓ desacetyl diltiazem* ↓ N-monodesmethyl diltiazem* Diltiazem dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for diltiazem). No dose adjustment of efavirenz is necessary when administered with diltiazem. Others (eg, felodipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, verapamil) ↓ calcium channel blocker No data are available on the potential interactions of efavirenz with other calcium channel blockers that are substrates of CYP3A. The potential exists for reduction in plasma concentrations of the calcium channel blocker. Dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for the calcium channel blocker). HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: Atorvastatin Pravastatin Simvastatin ↓ atorvastatin* ↓ pravastatin* ↓ simvastatin* Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin decreased. Consult the full prescribing information for the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor for guidance on individualizing the dose. Hormonal contraceptives: Oral Ethinyl estradiol/ Norgestimate ↓ active metabolites of norgestimate* A reliable method of barrier contraception should be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. Efavirenz had no effect on ethinyl estradiol concentrations, but progestin levels (norelgestromin and levonorgestrel) were markedly decreased. No effect of ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate on efavirenz plasma concentrations was observed. Implant Etonogestrel ↓ etonogestrel A reliable method of barrier contraception should be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. The interaction between etonogestrel and efavirenz has not been studied. Decreased exposure of etonogestrel may be expected. There have been postmarketing reports of contraceptive failure with etonogestrel in efavirenz-exposed patients. Immunosuppressants: Cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, and others metabolized by CYP3A ↓ immunosuppressant Decreased exposure of the immunosuppressant may be expected due to CYP3A induction. These immunosuppressants are not anticipated to affect exposure of efavirenz. Dose adjustments of the immunosuppressant may be required. Close monitoring of immunosuppressant concentrations for at least 2 weeks (until stable concentrations are reached) is recommended when starting or stopping treatment with efavirenz. Narcotic analgesic: Methadone ↓ methadone* Coadministration in HIV-infected individuals with a history of injection drug use resulted in decreased plasma levels of methadone and signs of opiate withdrawal. Methadone dose was increased by a mean of 22% to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Patients should be monitored for signs of withdrawal and their methadone dose increased as required to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Other Drugs Based on the results of drug interaction studies [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3, Tables 7 and 8) ], no dosage adjustment is recommended when SUSTIVA is given with the following: aluminum/magnesium hydroxide antacids, azithromycin, cetirizine, famotidine, fluconazole, lamivudine, lorazepam, nelfinavir, paroxetine, raltegravir, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, and zidovudine. Specific drug interaction studies have not been performed with SUSTIVA and NRTIs other than lamivudine and zidovudine. Clinically significant interactions would not be expected since the NRTIs are metabolized via a different route than efavirenz and would be unlikely to compete for the same metabolic enzymes and elimination pathways. 7.2 Cannabinoid Test Interaction Efavirenz does not bind to cannabinoid receptors. False-positive urine cannabinoid test results have been reported with some screening assays in uninfected and HIV-infected subjects receiving efavirenz. Confirmation of positive screening tests for cannabinoids by a more specific method is recommended.",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (>5%, moderate-severe) are impaired concentration, abnormal dreams, rash, dizziness, nausea, headache, fatigue, insomnia, and vomiting. (5.5, 6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . The most significant adverse reactions observed in patients treated with SUSTIVA are: •psychiatric symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ], •nervous system symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ], •rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse reaction rates reported cannot be directly compared to rates in other clinical studies and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Adverse Reactions in Adults The most common (>5% in either efavirenz treatment group) adverse reactions of at least moderate severity among patients in Study 006 treated with SUSTIVA in combination with zidovudine/lamivudine or indinavir were rash, dizziness, nausea, headache, fatigue, insomnia, and vomiting. Selected clinical adverse reactions of moderate or severe intensity observed in ≥2% of SUSTIVA-treated patients in two controlled clinical trials are presented in Table 2. Table 2: Selected Treatment-Emergenta Adverse Reactions of Moderate or Severe Intensity Reported in ≥2% of SUSTIVA-Treated Patients in Studies 006 and ACTG 364 Study 006 LAM-, NNRTI-, and Protease Inhibitor-Naive Patients Study ACTG 364 NRTI-experienced, NNRTI-, and Protease Inhibitor-Naive Patients SUSTIVAb + ZDV/LAM (n=412) SUSTIVAb + Indinavir (n=415) Indinavir + ZDV/LAM (n=401) SUSTIVAb + Nelfinavir + NRTIs (n=64) SUSTIVAb + NRTIs (n=65) Nelfinavir + NRTIs (n=66) Adverse Reactions 180 weeksc 102 weeksc 76 weeksc 71.1 weeksc 70.9 weeksc 62.7 weeksc a Includes adverse events at least possibly related to study drug or of unknown relationship for Study 006. Includes all adverse events regardless of relationship to study drug for Study ACTG 364. b SUSTIVA provided as 600 mg once daily. c Median duration of treatment. d Includes erythema multiforme, rash, rash erythematous, rash follicular, rash maculopapular, rash petechial, rash pustular, and urticaria for Study 006 and macules, papules, rash, erythema, redness, inflammation, allergic rash, urticaria, welts, hives, itchy, and pruritus for ACTG 364. — = Not Specified. ZDV = zidovudine, LAM = lamivudine. Body as a Whole Fatigue 8% 5% 9% 0 2% 3% Pain 1% 2% 8% 13% 6% 17% Central and Peripheral Nervous System Dizziness 9% 9% 2% 2% 6% 6% Headache 8% 5% 3% 5% 2% 3% Insomnia 7% 7% 2% 0 0 2% Concentration impaired 5% 3% <1% 0 0 0 Abnormal dreams 3% 1% 0 — — — Somnolence 2% 2% <1% 0 0 0 Anorexia 1% <1% <1% 0 2% 2% Gastrointestinal Nausea 10% 6% 24% 3% 2% 2% Vomiting 6% 3% 14% — — — Diarrhea 3% 5% 6% 14% 3% 9% Dyspepsia 4% 4% 6% 0 0 2% Abdominal pain 2% 2% 5% 3% 3% 3% Psychiatric Anxiety 2% 4% <1% — — — Depression 5% 4% <1% 3% 0 5% Nervousness 2% 2% 0 2% 0 2% Skin & Appendages Rashd 11% 16% 5% 9% 5% 9% Pruritus <1% 1% 1% 9% 5% 9% Pancreatitis has been reported, although a causal relationship with efavirenz has not been established. Asymptomatic increases in serum amylase levels were observed in a significantly higher number of patients treated with efavirenz 600 mg than in control patients (see Laboratory Abnormalities ). Nervous System Symptoms For 1008 patients treated with regimens containing SUSTIVA and 635 patients treated with a control regimen in controlled trials, Table 3 lists the frequency of symptoms of different degrees of severity and gives the discontinuation rates for one or more of the following nervous system symptoms: dizziness, insomnia, impaired concentration, somnolence, abnormal dreaming, euphoria, confusion, agitation, amnesia, hallucinations, stupor, abnormal thinking, and depersonalization [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ]. The frequencies of specific central and peripheral nervous system symptoms are provided in Table 2. Table 3: Percent of Patients with One or More Selected Nervous System Symptomsa,b Percent of Patients with: SUSTIVA 600 mg Once Daily (n=1008) Control Groups (n=635) % % a Includes events reported regardless of causality. b Data from Study 006 and three Phase 2/3 studies. c “Mild” = Symptoms which do not interfere with patient’s daily activities. d “Moderate” = Symptoms which may interfere with daily activities. e “Severe” = Events which interrupt patient’s usual daily activities. Symptoms of any severity 52.7 24.6 Mild symptomsc 33.3 15.6 Moderate symptomsd 17.4 7.7 Severe symptomse 2.0 1.3 Treatment discontinuation as a result of symptoms 2.1 1.1 Psychiatric Symptoms Serious psychiatric adverse experiences have been reported in patients treated with SUSTIVA. In controlled trials, psychiatric symptoms observed at a frequency greater than 2% among patients treated with SUSTIVA or control regimens, respectively, were depression (19%, 16%), anxiety (13%, 9%), and nervousness (7%, 2%). Rash In controlled clinical trials, the frequency of rash (all grades, regardless of causality) was 26% for 1008 adults treated with regimens containing SUSTIVA and 17% for 635 adults treated with a control regimen. Most reports of rash were mild or moderate in severity. The frequency of Grade 3 rash was 0.8% for SUSTIVA-treated patients and 0.3% for control groups, and the frequency of Grade 4 rash was 0.1% for SUSTIVA and 0 for control groups. The discontinuation rates as a result of rash were 1.7% for SUSTIVA-treated patients and 0.3% for control groups [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. Experience with SUSTIVA in patients who discontinued other antiretroviral agents of the NNRTI class is limited. Nineteen patients who discontinued nevirapine because of rash have been treated with SUSTIVA. Nine of these patients developed mild-to-moderate rash while receiving therapy with SUSTIVA, and two of these patients discontinued because of rash. Laboratory Abnormalities Selected Grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities reported in ≥2% of SUSTIVA-treated patients in two clinical trials are presented in Table 4. Table 4: Selected Grade 3-4 Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in ≥2% of SUSTIVA-Treated Patients in Studies 006 and ACTG 364 Study 006 LAM-, NNRTI-, and Protease Inhibitor-Naive Patients Study ACTG 364 NRTI-experienced, NNRTI-, and Protease Inhibitor-Naive Patients Variable Limit SUSTIVAa + ZDV/LAM (n=412) SUSTIVAa + Indinavir (n=415) Indinavir + ZDV/LAM (n=401) SUSTIVAa + Nelfinavir + NRTIs (n=64) SUSTIVAa + NRTIs (n=65) Nelfinavir + NRTIs (n=66) 180 weeksb 102 weeksb 76 weeksb 71.1 weeksb 70.9 weeksb 62.7 weeksb a SUSTIVA provided as 600 mg once daily. b Median duration of treatment. c Isolated elevations of GGT in patients receiving SUSTIVA may reflect enzyme induction not associated with liver toxicity. d Nonfasting. ZDV = zidovudine, LAM = lamivudine, ULN = upper limit of normal, ALT = alanine aminotransferase, AST = aspartate aminotransferase, GGT = gamma-glutamyltransferase. Chemistry ALT >5 × ULN 5% 8% 5% 2% 6% 3% AST >5 × ULN 5% 6% 5% 6% 8% 8% GGTc >5 × ULN 8% 7% 3% 5% 0 5% Amylase >2 × ULN 4% 4% 1% 0 6% 2% Glucose >250 mg/dL 3% 3% 3% 5% 2% 3% Triglyceridesd ≥751 mg/dL 9% 6% 6% 11% 8% 17% Hematology Neutrophils <750/mm3 10% 3% 5% 2% 3% 2% Patients Coinfected with Hepatitis B or C Liver function tests should be monitored in patients with a history of hepatitis B and/or C. In the long-term data set from Study 006, 137 patients treated with SUSTIVA-containing regimens (median duration of therapy, 68 weeks) and 84 treated with a control regimen (median duration, 56 weeks) were seropositive at screening for hepatitis B (surface antigen positive) and/or C (hepatitis C antibody positive). Among these coinfected patients, elevations in AST to greater than five times ULN developed in 13% of patients in the SUSTIVA arms and 7% of those in the control arm, and elevations in ALT to greater than five times ULN developed in 20% of patients in the SUSTIVA arms and 7% of patients in the control arm. Among coinfected patients, 3% of those treated with SUSTIVA-containing regimens and 2% in the control arm discontinued from the study because of liver or biliary system disorders [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ]. Lipids Increases from baseline in total cholesterol of 10-20% have been observed in some uninfected volunteers receiving SUSTIVA. In patients treated with SUSTIVA + zidovudine + lamivudine, increases from baseline in nonfasting total cholesterol and HDL of approximately 20% and 25%, respectively, were observed. In patients treated with SUSTIVA + indinavir, increases from baseline in nonfasting cholesterol and HDL of approximately 40% and 35%, respectively, were observed. Nonfasting total cholesterol levels ≥240 mg/dL and ≥300 mg/dL were reported in 34% and 9%, respectively, of patients treated with SUSTIVA + zidovudine + lamivudine; 54% and 20%, respectively, of patients treated with SUSTIVA + indinavir; and 28% and 4%, respectively, of patients treated with indinavir + zidovudine + lamivudine. The effects of SUSTIVA on triglycerides and LDL in this study were not well characterized since samples were taken from nonfasting patients. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10) ]. Adverse Reactions in Pediatric Patients Because clinical studies are conducted under widely varying conditions, the adverse reaction rates reported cannot be directly compared to rates in other clinical studies and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Assessment of adverse reactions is based on three clinical trials in 182 HIV-1 infected pediatric patients (3 months to 21 years of age) who received SUSTIVA in combination with other antiretroviral agents for a median of 123 weeks. The adverse reactions observed in the three trials were similar to those observed in clinical trials in adults except that rash was more common in pediatric patients (32% for all grades regardless of causality) and more often of higher grade (ie, more severe). Two (1.1%) pediatric patients experienced Grade 3 rash (confluent rash with fever, generalized rash), and four (2.2%) pediatric patients had Grade 4 rash (all erythema multiforme). Five pediatric patients (2.7%) discontinued from the study because of rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7) ]. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of SUSTIVA. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Body as a Whole: allergic reactions, asthenia, redistribution/accumulation of body fat [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12) ] Central and Peripheral Nervous System: abnormal coordination, ataxia, cerebellar coordination and balance disturbances, convulsions, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, neuropathy, tremor, vertigo Endocrine: gynecomastia Gastrointestinal: constipation, malabsorption Cardiovascular: flushing, palpitations Liver and Biliary System: hepatic enzyme increase, hepatic failure, hepatitis. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, including cases in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors, were characterized by a fulminant course, progressing in some cases to transplantation or death. Metabolic and Nutritional: hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia Musculoskeletal: arthralgia, myalgia, myopathy Psychiatric: aggressive reactions, agitation, delusions, emotional lability, mania, neurosis, paranoia, psychosis, suicide Respiratory: dyspnea Skin and Appendages: erythema multiforme, photoallergic dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome Special Senses: abnormal vision, tinnitus",
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Do not use as a single agent or add on as a sole agent to a failing regimen. Consider potential for cross-resistance when choosing other agents. (5.2) •Not recommended with ATRIPLA, which contains efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, unless needed for dose adjustment when coadministered with rifampin. (5.3) • Serious psychiatric symptoms: Immediate medical evaluation is recommended for serious psychiatric symptoms such as severe depression or suicidal ideation. (5.4, 17) • Nervous system symptoms (NSS): NSS are frequent and usually begin 1-2 days after initiating therapy and resolve in 2-4 weeks. Dosing at bedtime may improve tolerability. NSS are not predictive of onset of psychiatric symptoms. (5.5, 6.1, 17) • Embryo-Fetal Toxicity: Avoid administration in the first trimester of pregnancy as fetal harm may occur. (5.6, 8.1) • Hepatotoxicity: Monitor liver function tests before and during treatment in patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C coinfection, marked transaminase elevations, or who are taking medications associated with liver toxicity. Among reported cases of hepatic failure, a few occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease. (5.8, 6.1, 8.6) • Rash: Rash usually begins within 1-2 weeks after initiating therapy and resolves within 4 weeks. Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.7, 6.1, 17) • Convulsions: Use caution in patients with a history of seizures. (5.9) • Lipids: Total cholesterol and triglyceride elevations. Monitor before therapy and periodically thereafter. (5.10) • Immune reconstitution syndrome: May necessitate further evaluation and treatment. (5.11) • Redistribution/accumulation of body fat: Observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. (5.12, 17) 5.1 Drug Interactions Efavirenz plasma concentrations may be altered by substrates, inhibitors, or inducers of CYP3A. Likewise, efavirenz may alter plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2B6. The most prominent effect of efavirenz at steady-state is induction of CYP3A and CYP2B6. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Drug Interactions (7.1) .] 5.2 Resistance SUSTIVA must not be used as a single agent to treat HIV-1 infection or added on as a sole agent to a failing regimen. Resistant virus emerges rapidly when efavirenz is administered as monotherapy. The choice of new antiretroviral agents to be used in combination with efavirenz should take into consideration the potential for viral cross-resistance. 5.3 Coadministration with Related Products Coadministration of SUSTIVA with ATRIPLA (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) is not recommended unless needed for dose adjustment (eg, with rifampin), since efavirenz is one of its active ingredients. 5.4 Psychiatric Symptoms Serious psychiatric adverse experiences have been reported in patients treated with SUSTIVA. In controlled trials of 1008 patients treated with regimens containing SUSTIVA for a mean of 2.1 years and 635 patients treated with control regimens for a mean of 1.5 years, the frequency (regardless of causality) of specific serious psychiatric events among patients who received SUSTIVA or control regimens, respectively, were severe depression (2.4%, 0.9%), suicidal ideation (0.7%, 0.3%), nonfatal suicide attempts (0.5%, 0), aggressive behavior (0.4%, 0.5%), paranoid reactions (0.4%, 0.3%), and manic reactions (0.2%, 0.3%). When psychiatric symptoms similar to those noted above were combined and evaluated as a group in a multifactorial analysis of data from Study 006, treatment with efavirenz was associated with an increase in the occurrence of these selected psychiatric symptoms. Other factors associated with an increase in the occurrence of these psychiatric symptoms were history of injection drug use, psychiatric history, and receipt of psychiatric medication at study entry; similar associations were observed in both the SUSTIVA and control treatment groups. In Study 006, onset of new serious psychiatric symptoms occurred throughout the study for both SUSTIVA-treated and control-treated patients. One percent of SUSTIVA-treated patients discontinued or interrupted treatment because of one or more of these selected psychiatric symptoms. There have also been occasional postmarketing reports of death by suicide, delusions, and psychosis-like behavior, although a causal relationship to the use of SUSTIVA cannot be determined from these reports. Patients with serious psychiatric adverse experiences should seek immediate medical evaluation to assess the possibility that the symptoms may be related to the use of SUSTIVA, and if so, to determine whether the risks of continued therapy outweigh the benefits. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1) .] 5.5 Nervous System Symptoms Fifty-three percent (531/1008) of patients receiving SUSTIVA in controlled trials reported central nervous system symptoms (any grade, regardless of causality) compared to 25% (156/635) of patients receiving control regimens [see Adverse Reactions (6.1, Table 3) ]. These symptoms included, but were not limited to, dizziness (28.1% of the 1008 patients), insomnia (16.3%), impaired concentration (8.3%), somnolence (7.0%), abnormal dreams (6.2%), and hallucinations (1.2%). These symptoms were severe in 2.0% of patients; and 2.1% of patients discontinued therapy as a result. These symptoms usually begin during the first or second day of therapy and generally resolve after the first 2-4 weeks of therapy. After 4 weeks of therapy, the prevalence of nervous system symptoms of at least moderate severity ranged from 5% to 9% in patients treated with regimens containing SUSTIVA and from 3% to 5% in patients treated with a control regimen. Patients should be informed that these common symptoms were likely to improve with continued therapy and were not predictive of subsequent onset of the less frequent psychiatric symptoms [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4) ]. Dosing at bedtime may improve the tolerability of these nervous system symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2) ]. Analysis of long-term data from Study 006 (median follow-up 180 weeks, 102 weeks, and 76 weeks for patients treated with SUSTIVA + zidovudine + lamivudine, SUSTIVA + indinavir, and indinavir + zidovudine + lamivudine, respectively) showed that, beyond 24 weeks of therapy, the incidences of new-onset nervous system symptoms among SUSTIVA-treated patients were generally similar to those in the indinavir-containing control arm. Patients receiving SUSTIVA should be alerted to the potential for additive central nervous system effects when SUSTIVA is used concomitantly with alcohol or psychoactive drugs. Patients who experience central nervous system symptoms such as dizziness, impaired concentration, and/or drowsiness should avoid potentially hazardous tasks such as driving or operating machinery. 5.6 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Efavirenz may cause fetal harm when administered during the first trimester to a pregnant woman. Advise females of reproductive potential who are receiving SUSTIVA to avoid pregnancy. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.1 and 8.3) .] 5.7 Rash In controlled clinical trials, 26% (266/1008) of adult patients treated with 600 mg SUSTIVA experienced new-onset skin rash compared with 17% (111/635) of those treated in control groups [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Rash associated with blistering, moist desquamation, or ulceration occurred in 0.9% (9/1008) of patients treated with SUSTIVA. The incidence of Grade 4 rash (eg, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) in adult patients treated with SUSTIVA in all studies and expanded access was 0.1%. Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 2 weeks of initiating therapy with efavirenz (median time to onset of rash in adults was 11 days) and, in most patients continuing therapy with efavirenz, rash resolves within 1 month (median duration, 16 days). The discontinuation rate for rash in adult clinical trials was 1.7% (17/1008). Rash was reported in 59 of 182 pediatric patients (32%) treated with SUSTIVA [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Two pediatric patients experienced Grade 3 rash (confluent rash with fever, generalized rash), and four patients had Grade 4 rash (erythema multiforme). The median time to onset of rash in pediatric patients was 28 days (range 3-1642 days). Prophylaxis with appropriate antihistamines before initiating therapy with SUSTIVA in pediatric patients should be considered. SUSTIVA can generally be reinitiated in patients interrupting therapy because of rash. SUSTIVA should be discontinued in patients developing severe rash associated with blistering, desquamation, mucosal involvement, or fever. Appropriate antihistamines and/or corticosteroids may improve the tolerability and hasten the resolution of rash. For patients who have had a life-threatening cutaneous reaction (eg, Stevens-Johnson syndrome), alternative therapy should be considered [see also Contraindications (4.1) ]. 5.8 Hepatotoxicity Monitoring of liver enzymes before and during treatment is recommended for patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C infection; patients with marked transaminase elevations; and patients treated with other medications associated with liver toxicity [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) and Use in Specific Populations (8.6) ]. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors [see Adverse Reactions (6.2) ]. Liver enzyme monitoring should also be considered for patients without pre-existing hepatic dysfunction or other risk factors. In patients with persistent elevations of serum transaminases to greater than five times the upper limit of the normal range, the benefit of continued therapy with SUSTIVA needs to be weighed against the unknown risks of significant liver toxicity. 5.9 Convulsions Convulsions have been observed in adult and pediatric patients receiving efavirenz, generally in the presence of known medical history of seizures [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2) ]. Caution should be taken in any patient with a history of seizures. Patients who are receiving concomitant anticonvulsant medications primarily metabolized by the liver, such as phenytoin and phenobarbital, may require periodic monitoring of plasma levels [see Drug Interactions (7.1) ]. 5.10 Lipid Elevations Treatment with SUSTIVA has resulted in increases in the concentration of total cholesterol and triglycerides [see Adverse Reactions (6.1) ]. Cholesterol and triglyceride testing should be performed before initiating SUSTIVA therapy and at periodic intervals during therapy. 5.11 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including SUSTIVA. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections [such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis], which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution; however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.12 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and “cushingoid appearance” have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established.",
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Efavirenz&limit=1&skip=6
Page 6 of 7
        "generic_name": [
          "EFAVIRENZ, EMTRICITABINE, AND TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Atripla"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS This section describes clinically relevant drug interactions with ATRIPLA. Drug interaction trials are described elsewhere in the labeling [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Efavirenz: Coadministration of efavirenz can alter the concentrations of other drugs and other drugs may alter the concentrations of efavirenz. The potential for drug-drug interactions must be considered before and during therapy. (4.2, 7.1, 12.3) Didanosine: Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate increases didanosine concentrations. Use with caution and monitor for evidence of didanosine toxicity (e.g., pancreatitis, neuropathy) when coadministered. Consider dose reductions or discontinuations of didanosine if warranted. (7.2) Atazanavir: Coadministration of ATRIPLA and atazanavir or atazanavir/ritonavir is not recommended. (7.3) Lopinavir/ritonavir: Coadministration increases tenofovir concentrations. Monitor for evidence of tenofovir toxicity. (7.3) 7.1 Efavirenz Efavirenz has been shown in vivo to induce CYP3A and CYP2B6. Other compounds that are substrates of CYP3A or CYP2B6 may have decreased plasma concentrations when coadministered with efavirenz. In vitro studies have demonstrated that efavirenz inhibits CYP2C9, 2C19, and 3A4 isozymes in the range of observed efavirenz plasma concentrations. Coadministration of efavirenz with drugs primarily metabolized by these isozymes may result in altered plasma concentrations of the coadministered drug. Therefore, appropriate dose adjustments may be necessary for these drugs. Drugs that induce CYP3A activity (e.g., phenobarbital, rifampin, rifabutin) would be expected to increase the clearance of efavirenz resulting in lowered plasma concentrations [See Dosage and Administration (2)]. 7.2 Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Since emtricitabine and tenofovir are primarily eliminated by the kidneys, coadministration of ATRIPLA with drugs that reduce renal function or compete for active tubular secretion may increase serum concentrations of emtricitabine, tenofovir, and/or other renally eliminated drugs. Some examples include, but are not limited to, acyclovir, adefovir dipivoxil, cidofovir, ganciclovir, valacyclovir, and valganciclovir. Coadministration of tenofovir DF and didanosine should be undertaken with caution and patients receiving this combination should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. Didanosine should be discontinued in patients who develop didanosine-associated adverse reactions [for didanosine dosing adjustment recommendations, see Table 4]. Suppression of CD4+ cell counts has been observed in patients receiving tenofovir DF with didanosine 400 mg daily. Lopinavir/ritonavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations. The mechanism of this interaction is unknown. Patients receiving lopinavir/ritonavir with ATRIPLA should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. ATRIPLA should be discontinued in patients who develop tenofovir-associated adverse reactions [See Table 4]. Coadministration of atazanavir with ATRIPLA is not recommended since coadministration of atazanavir with either efavirenz or tenofovir DF has been shown to decrease plasma concentrations of atazanavir. Also, atazanavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations. There are insufficient data to support dosing recommendations for atazanavir or atazanavir/ritonavir in combination with ATRIPLA [See Table 4]. 7.3 Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Other important drug interaction information for ATRIPLA is summarized in Table 1 and Table 4. The drug interactions described are based on trials conducted with efavirenz, emtricitabine or tenofovir DF as individual agents or are potential drug interactions; no drug interaction trials have been conducted using ATRIPLA [for pharmacokinetics data see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3) , Tables 5–9]. The tables include potentially significant interactions, but are not all inclusive. Table 4 Established and Other Potentially SignificantThis table is not all inclusive. Drug Interactions: Alteration in Dose or Regimen May Be Recommended Based on Drug Interaction Trials or Predicted Interaction Concomitant Drug Class: Drug Name Effect Clinical Comment Antiretroviral agents Protease inhibitor: atazanavir ↓atazanavir concentration ↑ tenofovir concentration Coadministration of atazanavir with ATRIPLA is not recommended. Coadministration of atazanavir with either efavirenz or tenofovir DF decreases plasma concentrations of atazanavir. The combined effect of efavirenz plus tenofovir DF on atazanavir plasma concentrations is not known. Also, atazanavir has been shown to increase tenofovir concentrations. There are insufficient data to support dosing recommendations for atazanavir or atazanavir/ritonavir in combination with ATRIPLA. Protease inhibitor: fosamprenavir calcium ↓ amprenavir concentration Fosamprenavir (unboosted): Appropriate doses of fosamprenavir and ATRIPLA with respect to safety and efficacy have not been established. Fosamprenavir/ritonavir: An additional 100 mg/day (300 mg total) of ritonavir is recommended when ATRIPLA is administered with fosamprenavir/ritonavir once daily. No change in the ritonavir dose is required when ATRIPLA is administered with fosamprenavir plus ritonavir twice daily. Protease inhibitor: indinavir ↓ indinavir concentration The optimal dose of indinavir, when given in combination with efavirenz, is not known. Increasing the indinavir dose to 1000 mg every 8 hours does not compensate for the increased indinavir metabolism due to efavirenz. Protease inhibitor: lopinavir/ritonavir ↓ lopinavir concentration ↑ tenofovir concentration A dose increase of lopinavir/ritonavir to 600/150 mg (3 tablets) twice daily may be considered when used in combination with efavirenz in treatment-experienced patients where decreased susceptibility to lopinavir is clinically suspected (by treatment history or laboratory evidence). Patients should be monitored for tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. ATRIPLA should be discontinued in patients who develop tenofovir-associated adverse reactions. Protease inhibitor: ritonavir ↑ ritonavir concentration ↑ efavirenz concentration When ritonavir 500 mg every 12 hours was coadministered with efavirenz 600 mg once daily, the combination was associated with a higher frequency of adverse clinical experiences (e.g., dizziness, nausea, paresthesia) and laboratory abnormalities (elevated liver enzymes). Monitoring of liver enzymes is recommended when ATRIPLA is used in combination with ritonavir. Protease inhibitor: saquinavir ↓ saquinavir concentration Should not be used as sole protease inhibitor in combination with ATRIPLA. CCR5 co-receptor antagonist: maraviroc ↓ maraviroc concentration Efavirenz decreases plasma concentrations of maraviroc. Refer to the full prescribing information for maraviroc for guidance on coadministration with ATRIPLA. NRTI: didanosine ↑ didanosine concentration Higher didanosine concentrations could potentiate didanosine-associated adverse reactions, including pancreatitis and neuropathy. In patients weighing >60 kg, the didanosine dose should be reduced to 250 mg if coadministered with ATRIPLA. Data are not available to recommend a dose adjustment of didanosine for patients weighing <60 kg. Coadministration of ATRIPLA and didanosine should be undertaken with caution and patients receiving this combination should be monitored closely for didanosine-associated adverse reactions. For additional information, please consult the Videx / Videx EC (didanosine) prescribing information. Other agents Anticoagulant: warfarin ↑ or ↓ warfarin concentration Plasma concentrations and effects potentially increased or decreased by efavirenz. Anticonvulsants: carbamazepine ↓ carbamazepine concentration ↓ efavirenz concentration There are insufficient data to make a dose recommendation for ATRIPLA. Alternative anticonvulsant treatment should be used. phenytoin phenobarbital ↓ anticonvulsant concentration ↓ efavirenz concentration Potential for reduction in anticonvulsant and/or efavirenz plasma levels; periodic monitoring of anticonvulsant plasma levels should be conducted. Antidepressants: bupropion ↓ buproprion concentration The effect of efavirenz on bupropion exposure is thought to be due to the induction of bupropion metabolism. Increases in bupropion dosage should be guided by clinical response, but the maximum recommended dose of bupropion should not be exceeded. sertraline ↓ sertraline concentration Increases in sertraline dose should be guided by clinical response. Antifungals: itraconazole ↓ itraconazole concentration ↓ hydroxy-itraconazole concentration Since no dose recommendation for itraconazole can be made, alternative antifungal treatment should be considered. ketoconazole ↓ ketoconazole concentration Drug interaction trials with ATRIPLA and ketoconazole have not been conducted. Efavirenz has the potential to decrease plasma concentrations of ketoconazole. posaconazole ↓ posaconazole concentration Avoid concomitant use unless the benefit outweighs the risks. Anti-infective: clarithromycin ↓ clarithromycin concentration ↑ 14-OH metabolite concentration Clinical significance unknown. In uninfected volunteers, 46% developed rash while receiving efavirenz and clarithromycin. No dose adjustment of ATRIPLA is recommended when given with clarithromycin. Alternatives to clarithromycin, such as azithromycin, should be considered. Other macrolide antibiotics, such as erythromycin, have not been studied in combination with ATRIPLA. Antimycobacterial: rifabutin ↓ rifabutin concentration Increase daily dose of rifabutin by 50%. Consider doubling the rifabutin dose in regimens where rifabutin is given 2 or 3 times a week. Antimycobacterial: rifampin ↓ efavirenz concentration If ATRIPLA is coadministered with rifampin to patients weighing 50 kg or more, an additional 200 mg/day of efavirenz is recommended. Calcium channel blockers: diltiazem ↓ diltiazem concentration ↓ desacetyl diltiazem concentration ↓ N-monodes-methyl diltiazem concentration Diltiazem dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for diltiazem). No dose adjustment of ATRIPLA is necessary when administered with diltiazem. Others (e.g., felodipine, nicardipine, nifedipine, verapamil) ↓ calcium channel blocker No data are available on the potential interactions of efavirenz with other calcium channel blockers that are substrates of CYP3A. The potential exists for reduction in plasma concentrations of the calcium channel blocker. Dose adjustments should be guided by clinical response (refer to the full prescribing information for the calcium channel blocker). HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors: atorvastatin pravastatin simvastatin ↓ atorvastatin concentration ↓ pravastatin concentration ↓ simvastatin concentration Plasma concentrations of atorvastatin, pravastatin, and simvastatin decreased with efavirenz. Consult the full prescribing information for the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor for guidance on individualizing the dose. Hormonal contraceptives: Oral: ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate ↓ active metabolites of norgestimate A reliable method of barrier contraception must be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. Efavirenz had no effect on ethinyl estradiol concentrations, but progestin levels (norelgestromin and levonorgestrel) were markedly decreased. No effect of ethinyl estradiol/norgestimate on efavirenz plasma concentrations was observed. Implant: etonogestrel ↓ etonogestrel A reliable method of barrier contraception must be used in addition to hormonal contraceptives. The interaction between etonogestrel and efavirenz has not been studied. Decreased exposure of etonogestrel may be expected. There have been postmarketing reports of contraceptive failure with etonogestrel in efavirenz-exposed patients. Immunosuppressants: cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus, and others metabolized by CYP3A ↓ immuno-suppressant Decreased exposure of the immunosuppressant may be expected due to CYP3A induction by efavirenz. These immunosuppressants are not anticipated to affect exposure of efavirenz. Dose adjustments of the immunosuppressant may be required. Close monitoring of immunosuppressant concentrations for at least 2 weeks (until stable concentrations are reached) is recommended when starting or stopping treatment with ATRIPLA. Narcotic analgesic: methadone ↓ methadone concentration Coadministration of efavirenz in HIV-1 infected individuals with a history of injection drug use resulted in decreased plasma levels of methadone and signs of opiate withdrawal. Methadone dose was increased by a mean of 22% to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. Patients should be monitored for signs of withdrawal and their methadone dose increased as required to alleviate withdrawal symptoms. 7.4 Efavirenz Assay Interference Cannabinoid Test Interaction: Efavirenz does not bind to cannabinoid receptors. False-positive urine cannabinoid test results have been observed in non-HIV-infected volunteers receiving efavirenz when the Microgenics Cedia DAU Multi-Level THC assay was used for screening. Negative results were obtained when more specific confirmatory testing was performed with gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. For more information, please consult the SUSTIVA prescribing information."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 10%) observed in an active-controlled clinical trial of efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir DF are diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, headache, dizziness, depression, insomnia, abnormal dreams, and rash. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Gilead Sciences, Inc. at 1-800-GILEAD-5 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: The following adverse reactions are discussed in other sections of the labeling: Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis [See Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Severe Acute Exacerbations of Hepatitis B [See Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. Psychiatric Symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Nervous System Symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment [See Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Rash [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Hepatotoxicity [See Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Decreases in Bone Mineral Density [See Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. Immune Reconstitution Syndrome [See Warnings and Precautions (5.13)]. Drug Interactions [See Contraindications (4.2), Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Drug Interactions (7)]. For additional safety information about SUSTIVA (efavirenz), EMTRIVA (emtricitabine), or VIREAD (tenofovir DF) in combination with other antiretroviral agents, consult the prescribing information for these products. 6.1 Adverse Reactions from Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Clinical Trials in Adult Subjects Study 934 Study 934 was an open-label active-controlled trial in which 511 antiretroviral-naive subjects received either emtricitabine + tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz (N=257) or zidovudine/lamivudine administered in combination with efavirenz (N=254). The most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 10%, any severity) occurring in Study 934 include diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, headache, dizziness, depression, insomnia, abnormal dreams, and rash. Adverse reactions observed in Study 934 were generally consistent with those seen in previous trials of the individual components (Table 2). Table 2 Selected Treatment-Emergent Adverse ReactionsFrequencies of adverse reactions are based on all treatment-emergent adverse events, regardless of relationship to study drug. (Grades 2–4) Reported in ≥5% in Either Treatment Group in Study 934 (0–144 Weeks) FTC + TDF + EFVFrom Weeks 96 to 144 of the trial, subjects received emtricitabine/tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz in place of emtricitabine + tenofovir DF with efavirenz. AZT/3TC + EFV N=257 N=254 Gastrointestinal Disorder Diarrhea 9% 5% Nausea 9% 7% Vomiting 2% 5% General Disorders and Administration Site Condition Fatigue 9% 8% Infections and Infestations Sinusitis 8% 4% Upper respiratory tract infections 8% 5% Nasopharyngitis 5% 3% Nervous System Disorders Headache 6% 5% Dizziness 8% 7% Psychiatric Disorders Anxiety 5% 4% Depression 9% 7% Insomnia 5% 7% Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash EventRash event includes rash, exfoliative rash, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculo-papular, rash pruritic, and rash vesicular. 7% 9% Study 073 In Study 073, subjects with stable, virologic suppression on antiretroviral therapy and no history of virologic failure were randomized to receive ATRIPLA or to stay on their baseline regimen. The adverse reactions observed in Study 073 were generally consistent with those seen in Study 934 and those seen with the individual components of ATRIPLA when each was administered in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Efavirenz, Emtricitabine, or Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate In addition to the adverse reactions in Study 934 and Study 073 the following adverse reactions were observed in clinical trials of efavirenz, emtricitabine, or tenofovir DF in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Efavirenz: The most significant adverse reactions observed in subjects treated with efavirenz are nervous system symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6)], psychiatric symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)], and rash [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. Selected adverse reactions of moderate-severe intensity observed in greater than or equal to 2% of efavirenz-treated subjects in two controlled clinical trials included pain, impaired concentration, abnormal dreams, somnolence, anorexia, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, nervousness, and pruritus. Pancreatitis has also been reported, although a causal relationship with efavirenz has not been established. Asymptomatic increases in serum amylase levels were observed in a significantly higher number of subjects treated with efavirenz 600 mg than in control subjects. Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: Adverse reactions that occurred in at least 5% of treatment-experienced or treatment-naive subjects receiving emtricitabine or tenofovir DF with other antiretroviral agents in clinical trials include arthralgia, increased cough, dyspepsia, fever, myalgia, pain, abdominal pain, back pain, paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy (including peripheral neuritis and neuropathy), pneumonia, rhinitis and rash event (including rash, pruritus, maculopapular rash, urticaria, vesiculobullous rash, pustular rash and allergic reaction). Skin discoloration has been reported with higher frequency among emtricitabine-treated subjects; it was manifested by hyperpigmentation on the palms and/or soles and was generally mild and asymptomatic. The mechanism and clinical significance are unknown. Clinical Trials in Pediatric Subjects Efavirenz: In a pediatric clinical trial in 57 NRTI-experienced subjects aged 3 to 16 years, the type and frequency of adverse experiences was generally similar to that of adult subjects with the exception of a higher incidence of rash, which was reported in 46% (26/57) of pediatric subjects compared to 26% of adults, and a higher frequency of Grade 3 or 4 rash reported in 5% (3/57) of pediatric subjects compared to 0.9% of adults [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. For additional information, please consult the SUSTIVA prescribing information. Emtricitabine: In addition to the adverse reactions reported in adults, anemia and hyperpigmentation were observed in 7% and 32%, respectively, of pediatric subjects (3 months to less than 18 years of age) who received treatment with emtricitabine in the larger of two open-label, uncontrolled pediatric trials (N=116). For additional information, please consult the EMTRIVA prescribing information. Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: In a pediatric clinical trial conducted in subjects 12 to less than 18 years of age, the adverse reactions observed in pediatric subjects who received treatment with tenofovir DF were consistent with those observed in clinical trials of tenofovir DF in adults [See Warnings and Precautions (5.11)]. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: Laboratory abnormalities observed in Study 934 were generally consistent with those seen in previous trials (Table 3). Table 3 Significant Laboratory Abnormalities Reported in ≥1% of Subjects in Either Treatment Group in Study 934 (0–144 Weeks) FTC + TDF + EFVFrom Weeks 96 to 144 of the trial, subjects received emtricitabine/tenofovir DF administered in combination with efavirenz in place of emtricitabine + tenofovir DF with efavirenz. AZT/3TC + EFV N=257 N=254 Any ≥ Grade 3 Laboratory Abnormality 30% 26% Fasting Cholesterol (>240 mg/dL) 22% 24% Creatine Kinase (M: >990 U/L) (F: >845 U/L) 9% 7% Serum Amylase (>175 U/L) 8% 4% Alkaline Phosphatase (>550 U/L) 1% 0% AST (M: >180 U/L) (F: >170 U/L) 3% 3% ALT (M: >215 U/L) (F: >170 U/L) 2% 3% Hemoglobin (<8.0 mg/dL) 0% 4% Hyperglycemia (>250 mg/dL) 2% 1% Hematuria (>75 RBC/HPF) 3% 2% Glycosuria (≥3+) <1% 1% Neutrophils (<750/mm3) 3% 5% Fasting Triglycerides (>750 mg/dL) 4% 2% Laboratory abnormalities observed in Study 073 were generally consistent with those in Study 934. In addition to the laboratory abnormalities described for Study 934 (Table 3), Grade 3/4 laboratory abnormalities of increased bilirubin (greater than 2.5 × upper limit of normal (ULN)), increased pancreatic amylase (greater than 2.0 × ULN), increased or decreased serum glucose (less than 40 or greater than 250 mg/dL), and increased serum lipase (greater than 2.0 × ULN) occurred in up to 3% of subjects treated with emtricitabine or tenofovir DF with other antiretroviral agents in clinical trials. Hepatic Events: In Study 934, 19 subjects treated with efavirenz, emtricitabine, and tenofovir DF and 20 subjects treated with efavirenz and fixed-dose zidovudine/lamivudine were hepatitis B surface antigen or hepatitis C antibody positive. Among these coinfected subjects, one subject (1/19) in the efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir DF arm had elevations in transaminases to greater than five times ULN through 144 weeks. In the fixed-dose zidovudine/lamivudine arm, two subjects (2/20) had elevations in transaminases to greater than five times ULN through 144 weeks. No HBV and/or HCV coinfected subject discontinued from the trial due to hepatobiliary disorders [See Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of efavirenz, emtricitabine, or tenofovir DF. Because postmarketing reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Efavirenz: Cardiac Disorders Palpitations Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Tinnitus, vertigo Endocrine Disorders Gynecomastia Eye Disorders Abnormal vision Gastrointestinal Disorders Constipation, malabsorption General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Asthenia Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatic enzyme increase, hepatic failure, hepatitis. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, including cases in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors, were characterized by a fulminant course, progressing in some cases to transplantation or death. Immune System Disorders Allergic reactions Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Redistribution/accumulation of body fat [See Warnings and Precautions (5.14)], hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Arthralgia, myalgia, myopathy Nervous System Disorders Abnormal coordination, ataxia, cerebellar coordination and balance disturbances, convulsions, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, neuropathy, tremor Psychiatric Disorders Aggressive reactions, agitation, delusions, emotional lability, mania, neurosis, paranoia, psychosis, suicide Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Flushing, erythema multiforme, photoallergic dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome Emtricitabine: No postmarketing adverse reactions have been identified for inclusion in this section. Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate: Immune System Disorders Allergic reaction, including angioedema Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Lactic acidosis, hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Dyspnea Gastrointestinal Disorders Pancreatitis, increased amylase, abdominal pain Hepatobiliary Disorders Hepatic steatosis, hepatitis, increased liver enzymes (most commonly AST, ALT, gamma GT) Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rash Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and which may contribute to fractures), muscular weakness, myopathy Renal and Urinary Disorders Acute renal failure, renal failure, acute tubular necrosis, Fanconi syndrome, proximal renal tubulopathy, interstitial nephritis (including acute cases), nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, renal insufficiency, increased creatinine, proteinuria, polyuria General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Asthenia The following adverse reactions, listed under the body system headings above, may occur as a consequence of proximal renal tubulopathy: rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia, hypokalemia, muscular weakness, myopathy, hypophosphatemia."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious psychiatric symptoms: Immediate medical evaluation is recommended. (5.5, 6.1) Nervous system symptoms (NSS): NSS are frequent, usually begin 1–2 days after initiating therapy and resolve in 2–4 weeks. Dosing at bedtime may improve tolerability. NSS are not predictive of onset of psychiatric symptoms. (2, 5.6) New onset or worsening renal impairment: Can include acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome. Assess creatinine clearance (CrCl) before initiating treatment with ATRIPLA. Monitor CrCl and serum phosphorus in patients at risk. Avoid administering ATRIPLA with concurrent or recent use of nephrotoxic drugs. (5.7) Pregnancy: Fetal harm can occur when administered to a pregnant woman during the first trimester. Women should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus. A pregnancy registry is available. (5.8, 8.1) Rash: Discontinue if severe rash develops. (5.9, 6.1) Hepatotoxicity: Monitor liver function tests before and during treatment in patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C coinfection, marked transaminase elevations, or who are taking medications associated with liver toxicity. Among reported cases of hepatic failure, a few occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease. (5.10, 6.3, 8.6) Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD): Consider assessment of BMD in patients with a history of pathological fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss. (5.11) Convulsions: Use caution in patients with a history of seizures. (5.12) Immune reconstitution syndrome: May necessitate further evaluation and treatment. (5.13) Redistribution/accumulation of body fat: Observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. (5.14) Coadministration with other products: Do not use with drugs containing emtricitabine or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate including COMPLERA, EMTRIVA, TRUVADA, or VIREAD; or with drugs containing lamivudine. SUSTIVA (efavirenz) should not be coadministered with ATRIPLA unless required for dose-adjustment when coadministered with rifampin. Do not administer in combination with HEPSERA. (5.4) 5.1 Lactic Acidosis/Severe Hepatomegaly with Steatosis Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs including tenofovir DF, a component of ATRIPLA, in combination with other antiretrovirals. A majority of these cases have been in women. Obesity and prolonged nucleoside exposure may be risk factors. Particular caution should be exercised when administering nucleoside analogs to any patient with known risk factors for liver disease; however, cases have also been reported in patients with no known risk factors. Treatment with ATRIPLA should be suspended in any patient who develops clinical or laboratory findings suggestive of lactic acidosis or pronounced hepatotoxicity (which may include hepatomegaly and steatosis even in the absence of marked transaminase elevations). 5.2 Patients Coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV It is recommended that all patients with HIV-1 be tested for the presence of chronic HBV before initiating antiretroviral therapy. ATRIPLA is not approved for the treatment of chronic HBV infection, and the safety and efficacy of ATRIPLA have not been established in patients coinfected with HBV and HIV-1. Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients who are coinfected with HBV and HIV-1 and have discontinued emtricitabine or tenofovir DF, two of the components of ATRIPLA. In some patients infected with HBV and treated with emtricitabine, the exacerbations of hepatitis B were associated with liver decompensation and liver failure. Patients who are coinfected with HIV-1 and HBV should be closely monitored with both clinical and laboratory follow up for at least several months after stopping treatment with ATRIPLA. If appropriate, initiation of anti-hepatitis B therapy may be warranted. ATRIPLA should not be administered with HEPSERA® (adefovir dipivoxil) [See Drug Interactions (7.2)]. 5.3 Drug Interactions Efavirenz plasma concentrations may be altered by substrates, inhibitors, or inducers of CYP3A. Likewise, efavirenz may alter plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by CYP3A or CYP2B6 [See Contraindications (4.2), Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.4 Coadministration with Related Products Related drugs not for coadministration with ATRIPLA include COMPLERA (emtricitabine/rilpivirine/tenofovir DF), EMTRIVA (emtricitabine), TRUVADA (emtricitabine/tenofovir DF), and VIREAD (tenofovir DF), which contain the same active components as ATRIPLA. SUSTIVA (efavirenz) should not be coadministered with ATRIPLA unless needed for dose-adjustment (e.g. with rifampin) [See Dosage and Administration (2), Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Due to similarities between emtricitabine and lamivudine, ATRIPLA should not be coadministered with drugs containing lamivudine, including Combivir (lamivudine/zidovudine), Epivir, or Epivir-HBV (lamivudine), Epzicom (abacavir sulfate/lamivudine), or Trizivir (abacavir sulfate/lamivudine/zidovudine). 5.5 Psychiatric Symptoms Serious psychiatric adverse experiences have been reported in patients treated with efavirenz. In controlled trials of 1008 subjects treated with regimens containing efavirenz for a mean of 2.1 years and 635 subjects treated with control regimens for a mean of 1.5 years, the frequency (regardless of causality) of specific serious psychiatric events among subjects who received efavirenz or control regimens, respectively, were: severe depression (2.4%, 0.9%), suicidal ideation (0.7%, 0.3%), nonfatal suicide attempts (0.5%, 0%), aggressive behavior (0.4%, 0.5%), paranoid reactions (0.4%, 0.3%), and manic reactions (0.2%, 0.3%). When psychiatric symptoms similar to those noted above were combined and evaluated as a group in a multifactorial analysis of data from Study AI266006 (006), treatment with efavirenz was associated with an increase in the occurrence of these selected psychiatric symptoms. Other factors associated with an increase in the occurrence of these psychiatric symptoms were history of injection drug use, psychiatric history, and receipt of psychiatric medication at trial entry; similar associations were observed in both the efavirenz and control treatment groups. In Study 006, onset of new serious psychiatric symptoms occurred throughout the trial for both efavirenz-treated and control-treated subjects. One percent of efavirenz-treated subjects discontinued or interrupted treatment because of one or more of these selected psychiatric symptoms. There have also been occasional postmarketing reports of death by suicide, delusions, and psychosis-like behavior, although a causal relationship to the use of efavirenz cannot be determined from these reports. Patients with serious psychiatric adverse experiences should seek immediate medical evaluation to assess the possibility that the symptoms may be related to the use of efavirenz, and if so, to determine whether the risks of continued therapy outweigh the benefits [See Adverse Reactions (6)]. 5.6 Nervous System Symptoms Fifty-three percent (531/1008) of subjects receiving efavirenz in controlled trials reported central nervous system symptoms (any grade, regardless of causality) compared to 25% (156/635) of subjects receiving control regimens. These symptoms included dizziness (28.1% of the 1008 subjects), insomnia (16.3%), impaired concentration (8.3%), somnolence (7.0%), abnormal dreams (6.2%), and hallucinations (1.2%). Other reported symptoms were euphoria, confusion, agitation, amnesia, stupor, abnormal thinking, and depersonalization. The majority of these symptoms were mild-moderate (50.7%); symptoms were severe in 2.0% of subjects. Overall, 2.1% of subjects discontinued therapy as a result. These symptoms usually begin during the first or second day of therapy and generally resolve after the first 2–4 weeks of therapy. After 4 weeks of therapy, the prevalence of nervous system symptoms of at least moderate severity ranged from 5% to 9% in subjects treated with regimens containing efavirenz and from 3% to 5% in subjects treated with a control regimen. Patients should be informed that these common symptoms were likely to improve with continued therapy and were not predictive of subsequent onset of the less frequent psychiatric symptoms [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5)]. Dosing at bedtime may improve the tolerability of these nervous system symptoms [See Dosage and Administration (2)]. Analysis of long-term data from Study 006, (median follow-up 180 weeks, 102 weeks, and 76 weeks for subjects treated with efavirenz + zidovudine + lamivudine, efavirenz + indinavir, and indinavir + zidovudine + lamivudine, respectively) showed that, beyond 24 weeks of therapy, the incidences of new-onset nervous system symptoms among efavirenz-treated subjects were generally similar to those in the indinavir-containing control arm. Patients receiving ATRIPLA should be alerted to the potential for additive central nervous system effects when ATRIPLA is used concomitantly with alcohol or psychoactive drugs. Patients who experience central nervous system symptoms such as dizziness, impaired concentration, and/or drowsiness should avoid potentially hazardous tasks such as driving or operating machinery. 5.7 New Onset or Worsening Renal Impairment Emtricitabine and tenofovir are principally eliminated by the kidney; however, efavirenz is not. Since ATRIPLA is a combination product and the dose of the individual components cannot be altered, patients with creatinine clearance below 50 mL/min should not receive ATRIPLA. Renal impairment, including cases of acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome (renal tubular injury with severe hypophosphatemia), has been reported with the use of tenofovir DF [See Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. It is recommended that creatinine clearance be calculated in all patients prior to initiating therapy and as clinically appropriate during therapy with ATRIPLA. Routine monitoring of calculated creatinine clearance and serum phosphorus should be performed in patients at risk for renal impairment, including patients who have previously experienced renal events while receiving HEPSERA. ATRIPLA should be avoided with concurrent or recent use of a nephrotoxic agent. 5.8 Reproductive Risk Potential Pregnancy Category D: Efavirenz may cause fetal harm when administered during the first trimester to a pregnant woman. Pregnancy should be avoided in women receiving ATRIPLA. Barrier contraception must always be used in combination with other methods of contraception (e.g., oral or other hormonal contraceptives). Because of the long half-life of efavirenz, use of adequate contraceptive measures for 12 weeks after discontinuation of ATRIPLA is recommended. Women of childbearing potential should undergo pregnancy testing before initiation of ATRIPLA. If this drug is used during the first trimester of pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential harm to the fetus. There are no adequate and well-controlled trials of ATRIPLA in pregnant women. ATRIPLA should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus, such as in pregnant women without other therapeutic options [See Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. 5.9 Rash In controlled clinical trials, 26% (266/1008) of subjects treated with 600 mg efavirenz experienced new-onset skin rash compared with 17% (111/635) of subjects treated in control groups. Rash associated with blistering, moist desquamation, or ulceration occurred in 0.9% (9/1008) of subjects treated with efavirenz. The incidence of Grade 4 rash (e.g., erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) in subjects treated with efavirenz in all trials and expanded access was 0.1%. Rashes are usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions that occur within the first 2 weeks of initiating therapy with efavirenz (median time to onset of rash in adults was 11 days) and, in most subjects continuing therapy with efavirenz, rash resolves within 1 month (median duration, 16 days). The discontinuation rate for rash in clinical trials was 1.7% (17/1008). ATRIPLA can be reinitiated in patients interrupting therapy because of rash. ATRIPLA should be discontinued in patients developing severe rash associated with blistering, desquamation, mucosal involvement, or fever. Appropriate antihistamines and/or corticosteroids may improve the tolerability and hasten the resolution of rash. Experience with efavirenz in subjects who discontinued other antiretroviral agents of the NNRTI class is limited. Nineteen subjects who discontinued nevirapine because of rash have been treated with efavirenz. Nine of these subjects developed mild-to-moderate rash while receiving therapy with efavirenz, and two of these subjects discontinued because of rash. Rash was reported in 26 of 57 pediatric subjects (46%) treated with efavirenz [See Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. One pediatric subject experienced Grade 3 rash (confluent rash with fever), and two subjects had Grade 4 rash (erythema multiforme). The median time to onset of rash in pediatric subjects was 8 days. Prophylaxis with appropriate antihistamines before initiating therapy with ATRIPLA in pediatric patients should be considered. 5.10 Hepatotoxicity Monitoring of liver enzymes before and during treatment is recommended for patients with underlying hepatic disease, including hepatitis B or C infection; patients with marked transaminase elevations; and patients treated with other medications associated with liver toxicity [See also Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. A few of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure occurred in patients with no pre-existing hepatic disease or other identifiable risk factors [See Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. Liver enzyme monitoring should also be considered for patients without pre-existing hepatic dysfunction or other risk factors. In patients with persistent elevations of serum transaminases to greater than five times the upper limit of the normal range, the benefit of continued therapy with ATRIPLA needs to be weighed against the unknown risks of significant liver toxicity [See Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. 5.11 Decreases in Bone Mineral Density Assessment of bone mineral density (BMD) should be considered for patients who have a history of pathologic bone fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis or bone loss. Although the effect of supplementation with calcium and vitamin D was not studied, such supplementation may be beneficial for all patients. If bone abnormalities are suspected then appropriate consultation should be obtained. In a 144-week trial of treatment-naive adult subjects receiving tenofovir DF, decreases in BMD were seen at the lumbar spine and hip in both arms of the trial. At Week 144, there was a significantly greater mean percentage decrease from baseline in BMD at the lumbar spine in subjects receiving tenofovir DF + lamivudine + efavirenz compared with subjects receiving stavudine + lamivudine + efavirenz. Changes in BMD at the hip were similar between the two treatment groups. In both groups, the majority of the reduction in BMD occurred in the first 24–48 weeks of the trial and this reduction was sustained through 144 weeks. Twenty-eight percent of tenofovir DF-treated subjects vs. 21% of the comparator subjects lost at least 5% of BMD at the spine or 7% of BMD at the hip. Clinically relevant fractures (excluding fingers and toes) were reported in 4 subjects in the tenofovir DF group and 6 subjects in the comparator group. Tenofovir DF was associated with significant increases in biochemical markers of bone metabolism (serum bone-specific alkaline phosphatase, serum osteocalcin, serum C-telopeptide, and urinary N-telopeptide), suggesting increased bone turnover. Serum parathyroid hormone levels and 1,25 Vitamin D levels were also higher in subjects receiving tenofovir DF. In a clinical trial of HIV-1 infected pediatric subjects 12 years of age and older (Study 321), bone effects were similar to adult subjects. Under normal circumstances BMD increases rapidly in this age group. In this trial, the mean rate of bone gain was less in the tenofovir DF-treated group compared to the placebo group. Six tenofovir DF-treated subjects and one placebo-treated subject had significant (greater than 4%) lumbar spine BMD loss at 48 weeks. Among 28 subjects receiving 96 weeks of tenofovir DF, Z-scores declined by -0.341 for lumbar spine and -0.458 for total body. Skeletal growth (height) appeared to be unaffected. Markers of bone turnover in tenofovir DF-treated pediatric subjects 12 years of age and older suggest increased bone turnover, consistent with the effects observed in adults. The effects of tenofovir DF-associated changes in BMD and biochemical markers on long-term bone health and future fracture risk are unknown. For additional information, consult the VIREAD prescribing information. Cases of osteomalacia (associated with proximal renal tubulopathy and which may contribute to fractures) have been reported in association with the use of tenofovir DF [See Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. 5.12 Convulsions Convulsions have been observed in patients receiving efavirenz, generally in the presence of known medical history of seizures. Caution must be taken in any patient with a history of seizures. Patients who are receiving concomitant anticonvulsant medications primarily metabolized by the liver, such as phenytoin and phenobarbital, may require periodic monitoring of plasma levels [See Drug Interactions (7.3)]. 5.13 Immune Reconstitution Syndrome Immune reconstitution syndrome has been reported in patients treated with combination antiretroviral therapy, including the components of ATRIPLA. During the initial phase of combination antiretroviral treatment, patients whose immune system responds may develop an inflammatory response to indolent or residual opportunistic infections [such as Mycobacterium avium infection, cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP), or tuberculosis], which may necessitate further evaluation and treatment. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré syndrome) have also been reported to occur in the setting of immune reconstitution, however, the time to onset is more variable, and can occur many months after initiation of treatment. 5.14 Fat Redistribution Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement (buffalo hump), peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and \"cushingoid appearance\" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown. A causal relationship has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
