https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "FLOVENT DISKUS"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects (7.1) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with FLOVENT DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Reduction in bone mineral density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] •Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >3%) include upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, throat irritation, sinusitis, rhinitis, oral candidiasis, nausea and vomiting, gastrointestinal discomfort, fever, cough, bronchitis, and headache. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The incidence of common adverse reactions in Table 2 is based upon 7 placebo-controlled US clinical trials in which 1,176 pediatric, adolescent, and adult subjects (466 females and 710 males) previously treated with as-needed bronchodilators and/or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily for up to 12 weeks with FLOVENT DISKUS (doses of 50 to 500 mcg) or placebo. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With FLOVENT DISKUS With >3% Incidence and More Common Than Placebo in Subjects With Asthma Adverse Event FLOVENT DISKUS 50 mcg Twice Daily (n = 178) % FLOVENT DISKUS 100 mcg Twice Daily (n = 305) % FLOVENT DISKUS 250 mcg Twice Daily (n = 86) % FLOVENT DISKUS 500 mcg Twice Daily (n = 64) % Placebo (n = 543) % Ear, nose, and throat Upper respiratory tract infection 20 18 21 14 16 Throat irritation 13 13 3 22 8 Sinusitis/sinus infection 9 10 6 6 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 5 5 0 5 3 Rhinitis 4 3 1 2 2 Oral candidiasis <1 9 6 5 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea and vomiting 8 4 1 2 4 Gastrointestinal discomfort and pain 4 3 2 2 3 Viral gastrointestinal infection 4 3 3 5 1 Non-site specific Fever 7 7 1 2 4 Viral infection 2 2 0 5 2 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infection 4 5 1 2 4 Cough 3 5 1 5 4 Bronchitis 2 3 0 8 1 Neurological Headache 12 12 2 14 7 Musculoskeletal and trauma Muscle injury 2 0 1 5 1 Musculoskeletal pain 4 3 2 5 2 Injury 2 <1 0 5 <1 Table 2 includes all events (whether considered drug-related or nondrug-related by the investigator) that occurred at a rate of over 3% in any of the groups treated with FLOVENT DISKUS and were more common than in the placebo group. Less than 2% of subjects discontinued from the trials because of adverse reactions. The average duration of exposure was 73 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 56 days in the placebo group. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by subjects with asthma treated with FLOVENT DISKUS compared with subjects treated with placebo include the following: palpitations; soft tissue injuries; contusions and hematomas; wounds and lacerations; burns; poisoning and toxicity; pressure-induced disorders; hoarseness/dysphonia; epistaxis; ear, nose, throat, and tonsil signs and symptoms; ear, nose, and throat polyps; allergic ear, nose, and throat disorders; throat constriction; fluid disturbances; weight gain; appetite disturbances; keratitis and conjunctivitis; blepharoconjunctivitis; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; dental discomfort and pain; oral erythema and rashes; mouth and tongue disorders; oral discomfort and pain; tooth decay; cholecystitis; arthralgia and articular rheumatism; muscle cramps and spasms; musculoskeletal inflammation; dizziness; sleep disorders; migraines; paralysis of cranial nerves; edema and swelling; bacterial infections; fungal infections; mobility disorders; mood disorders; bacterial reproductive infections; photodermatitis; dermatitis and dermatosis; viral skin infections; eczema; pruritus; acne and folliculitis; urinary infections. Three (3) of the 7 placebo-controlled US clinical trials were pediatric trials. A total of 592 subjects aged 4 to 11 years were treated with FLOVENT DISKUS (dosages of 50 or 100 mcg twice daily) or placebo; an additional 174 subjects aged 4 to 11 years received FLOVENT® ROTADISK® (fluticasone propionate inhalation powder) at the same doses. There were no clinically relevant differences in the pattern or severity of adverse events in children compared with those reported in adults. In the first 16 weeks of a 52-week clinical trial in adult subjects with asthma who previously required oral corticosteroids (daily doses of 5 to 40 mg oral prednisone), the effects of FLOVENT DISKUS 500 mcg twice daily (n = 41) and 1,000 mcg twice daily (n = 36) were compared with placebo (n = 34) for the frequency of reported adverse events. The average duration of exposure for subjects taking FLOVENT DISKUS was 105 days compared with 75 days for placebo. Adverse events, whether or not considered drug related by the investigators, reported in more than 5 subjects in the group taking FLOVENT DISKUS and that occurred more frequently with FLOVENT DISKUS than with placebo are shown below (percent FLOVENT DISKUS and percent placebo). Ear, Nose, and Throat: Hoarseness/dysphonia (9% and 0%), nasal congestion/blockage (16% and 0%), oral candidiasis (31% and 21%), rhinitis (13% and 9%), sinusitis/sinus infection (33% and 12%), throat irritation (10% and 9%), and upper respiratory tract infection (31% and 24%). Gastrointestinal: Nausea and vomiting (9% and 0%). Lower Respiratory: Cough (9% and 3%) and viral respiratory infections (9% and 6%). Musculoskeletal: Arthralgia and articular rheumatism (17% and 3%) and muscle pain (12% and 0%). Non-Site Specific: Malaise and fatigue (16% and 9%) and pain (10% and 3%). Skin: Pruritus (6% and 0%) and skin rashes (8% and 3%). 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. Ear, Nose, and Throat: Aphonia, facial and oropharyngeal edema, and throat soreness. Endocrine and Metabolic: Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hyperglycemia, and osteoporosis. Eye: Cataracts. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, rash, angioedema, and bronchospasm, have been reported. Anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy have been reported. Infections and Infestations: Esophageal candidiasis. Psychiatry: Agitation, aggression, anxiety, depression, and restlessness. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Respiratory: Asthma exacerbation, bronchospasm, chest tightness, dyspnea, immediate bronchospasm, pneumonia, and wheeze. Skin: Contusions and ecchymoses."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx may occur. Monitor patients periodically. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing after inhalation to help reduce the risk. (5.1) •Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.3) •Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from systemic corticosteroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to FLOVENT DISKUS. (5.4) •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue FLOVENT DISKUS slowly. (5.5) •Assess for decrease in bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.7) •Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.8) •Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.9) 5.1 Local Effects of Inhaled Corticosteroids In clinical trials, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in subjects treated with FLOVENT DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral) antifungal therapy while treatment with FLOVENT DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with FLOVENT DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing following inhalation to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. 5.2 Acute Asthma Episodes FLOVENT DISKUS is not to be regarded as a bronchodilator and is not indicated for rapid relief of bronchospasm. Patients should be instructed to contact their physicians immediately when episodes of asthma that are not responsive to bronchodilators occur during the course of treatment with FLOVENT DISKUS. During such episodes, patients may require therapy with oral corticosteroids. 5.3 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.4 Transferring Patients From Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although FLOVENT DISKUS may control asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to FLOVENT DISKUS. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with FLOVENT DISKUS. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [AM PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to FLOVENT DISKUS may unmask allergic conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). During withdrawal from oral corticosteroids, some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Fluticasone propionate will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of FLOVENT DISKUS in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing FLOVENT DISKUS. Because of the possibility of significant systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids in sensitive patients, patients treated with FLOVENT DISKUS should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients who are sensitive to these effects. If such effects occur, FLOVENT DISKUS should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids, and other treatments for management of asthma symptoms should be considered. 5.6 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., urticaria, angioedema, rash, bronchospasm, hypotension), including anaphylaxis, may occur after administration of FLOVENT DISKUS. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy after inhalation of powder products containing lactose; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not use FLOVENT DISKUS [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.7 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, postmenopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. A 2-year trial in 160 subjects (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving CFC-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 5.8 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving FLOVENT DISKUS routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including FLOVENT DISKUS, titrate each patient’s dosage to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.9 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm As with other inhaled medicines, bronchospasm may occur with an immediate increase in wheezing after dosing. If bronchospasm occurs following dosing with FLOVENT DISKUS, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; FLOVENT DISKUS should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. 5.11 Drug Interactions With Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with FLOVENT DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.12 Eosinophilic Conditions and Churg-Strauss Syndrome In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=1
Page 1 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL"
        "brand_name": [
          "ADVAIR DISKUS"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta2-agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD, without adverse drug reactions. No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with ADVAIR DISKUS. Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Use not recommended. May cause systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. (7.1) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of salmeterol on vascular system. (7.2) Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. (7.3) Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. (7.4) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and reduced plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction study in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and Cmax increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. 7.3 Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with reversible obstructive airways disease. Therefore, patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Pneumonia in patients with COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥3%) are: Asthma: upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, pharyngitis, dysphonia, oral candidiasis, bronchitis, cough, headaches, nausea and vomiting. (6.1) COPD: pneumonia, oral candidiasis, throat irritation, dysphonia, viral respiratory infections, headaches, musculoskeletal pain. (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Asthma Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older: The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR DISKUS in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled, 12-week, US clinical studies (Studies 1 and 2). A total of 705 adolescent and adult patients (349 females and 356 males) previously treated with salmeterol or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS (100/50- or 250/50-mcg doses), fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100- or 250-mcg doses), salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. The average duration of exposure was 60 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 42 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (N = 92)% ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 84)% Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (N = 90)% Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 84)% Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 180)% Placebo (N = 175)% Ear, nose, & throat Upper respiratory tractinfection 27 21 29 25 19 14 Pharyngitis 13 10 7 12 8 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 7 6 7 8 8 5 Sinusitis 4 5 6 1 3 4 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 2 2 4 <1 <1 Oral candidiasis 1 4 2 2 0 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 4 4 4 10 6 3 Bronchitis 2 8 1 2 2 2 Cough 3 6 0 0 3 2 Neurology Headaches 12 13 14 8 10 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea & vomiting 4 6 3 4 1 1 Gastrointestinal discomfort& pain 4 1 0 2 1 1 Diarrhea 4 2 2 2 1 1 Viral gastrointestinal infections 3 0 3 1 2 2 Non-site specific Candidiasis unspecified site 3 0 1 4 0 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 4 2 1 5 3 3 The types of adverse reactions and events reported in Study 3, a 28-week, non-US clinical study of 503 patients previously treated with inhaled corticosteroids who were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg used concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, were similar to those reported in Table 2. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: lymphatic signs and symptoms; muscle injuries; fractures; wounds and lacerations; contusions and hematomas; ear signs and symptoms; nasal signs and symptoms; nasal sinus disorders; keratitis and conjunctivitis; dental discomfort and pain; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; oral discomfort and pain; lower respiratory signs and symptoms; pneumonia; muscle stiffness, tightness, and rigidity; bone and cartilage disorders; sleep disorders; compressed nerve syndromes; viral infections; pain; chest symptoms; fluid retention; bacterial infections; unusual taste; viral skin infections; skin flakiness and acquired ichthyosis; disorders of sweat and sebum. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: The safety data for pediatric patients aged 4 to 11 years is based upon 1 US trial of 12 weeks’ treatment duration. A total of 203 patients (74 females and 129 males) who were receiving inhaled corticosteroids at study entry were randomized to either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily. Common adverse reactions (≥3% and greater than placebo) seen in the pediatric patients but not reported in the adult and adolescent clinical trials include: throat irritation and ear, nose, and throat infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities: Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in ≥1% of patients in clinical trials. The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the studies. In addition, there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Short-Term (6 Months to 1 Year) Trials: The short-term safety data are based on exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily in one 6-month and two 1-year clinical trials. In the 6-month trial, a total of 723 adult patients (266 females and 457 males) were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder, or placebo. The mean age of the patients was 64, and the majority (93%) was Caucasian. In this trial, 70% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS reported an adverse reaction compared with 64% on placebo. The average duration of exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was 141.3 days compared with 131.6 days for placebo. The incidence of adverse reactions in the 6-month study is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Overall Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Associated With Chronic Bronchitis Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 178)% Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 183)% Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 177)% Placebo (N = 185)% Ear, nose, & throat Candidiasis mouth/throat 10 6 3 1 Throat irritation 8 5 4 7 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 3 <1 0 Sinusitis 3 8 5 3 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 6 4 3 3 Neurology Headaches 16 11 10 12 Dizziness 4 <1 3 2 Non-site specific Fever 4 3 0 3 Malaise & fatigue 3 2 2 3 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 9 8 12 9 Muscle cramps & spasms 3 3 1 1 In the two 1-year studies, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was compared with salmeterol in 1,579 patients (863 males and 716 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (94%) was Caucasian. To be enrolled, all of the patients had to have had a COPD exacerbation in the previous 12 months. In this trial, 88% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 86% of the patients treated with salmeterol reported an adverse event. The most common events that occurred with a frequency of >5% and more frequently in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, back pain, sinusitis, dizziness, nausea, pneumonia, candidiasis, and dysphonia. Overall, 55 (7%) of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 25 (3%) of the patients treated with salmeterol developed pneumonia. The incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age, 9% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with 4% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS less than 65 years of age. In the patients treated with salmeterol, the incidence of pneumonia was the same (3%) in both age-groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Long-Term (3-Year) Trial: The safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international, 3-year study in 6,184 adult patients with COPD (4,684 males and 1,500 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (82%) was Caucasian. The distribution of adverse events was similar to that seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. In addition, pneumonia was reported in a significantly increased number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg (16% and 14%, respectively) compared with patients treated with salmeterol 50 mcg or placebo (11% and 9%, respectively). When adjusted for time on treatment, the rates of pneumonia were 84 and 88 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the groups treated with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg and with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, compared with 52 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the salmeterol and placebo groups. Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with COPD treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: syncope; ear, nose, and throat infections; ear signs and symptoms; laryngitis; nasal congestion/blockage; nasal sinus disorders; pharyngitis/throat infection; hypothyroidism; dry eyes; eye infections; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral lesions; abnormal liver function tests; bacterial infections; edema and swelling; viral infections. Laboratory Abnormalities: There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials. Specifically, no increased reporting of neutrophilia or changes in glucose or potassium was noted. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during worldwide use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR DISKUS, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders: Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), ventricular tachycardia. Endocrine Disorders: Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism. Eye Disorders: Glaucoma. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, xerostomia. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reaction (including very rare anaphylactic reaction). Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy. Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperglycemia, weight gain. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders: Arthralgia, cramps, myositis, osteoporosis. Nervous System Disorders: Paresthesia, restlessness. Psychiatric Disorders: Agitation, aggression, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Dysmenorrhea. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Chest congestion; chest tightness; dyspnea; facial and oropharyngeal edema, immediate bronchospasm; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Ecchymoses, photodermatitis. Vascular Disorders: Pallor."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Asthma-related death: LABAs increase the risk. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. (5.1) Deterioration of disease and acute episodes: Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or to treat acute symptoms. (5.2) Use with additional LABA: Do not use in combination because of risk of overdose. (5.3) Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and throat may occur. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse the mouth following inhalation. (5.4) Pneumonia: Increased risk in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. (5.5) Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis, fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.6) Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.7) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS slowly. (5.8) Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Risk of increased systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. Use not recommended with ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.9) Paradoxical bronchospasm: Discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS and institute alternative therapy if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs. (5.10) Patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders: Use with caution because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. (5.12) Decreases in bone mineral density: Assess bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.13) Effects on growth: Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.14) Glaucoma and cataracts: Close monitoring is warranted. (5.15) Metabolic effects: Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. (5.16, 5.18) Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.17) 5.1 Asthma-Related Death LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABAs. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABAs increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe ADVAIR DISKUS for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma-control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use ADVAIR DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol. The Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) was a randomized double-blind study that enrolled LABA-naive patients with asthma to assess the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT® Inhalation Aerosol) 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy. A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of patients had been enrolled (N = 26,355), which led to premature termination of the study. The results of the interim analysis showed that patients receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events (see Table 1 and Figure 1). In the total population, a higher rate of asthma-related death occurred in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.10% versus 0.02%, relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Post-hoc subpopulation analyses were performed. In Caucasians, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than in patients treated with placebo (0.07% versus 0.01%, relative risk: 5.82 [95% CI: 0.70, 48.37]). In African Americans also, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.31% versus 0.04%, relative risk: 7.26 [95% CI: 0.89, 58.94]). Although the relative risks of asthma-related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans, the estimate of excess deaths in patients treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma-related death in African American patients (see Table 1). Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta2-agonists, the findings seen in the SMART study are considered a class effect. Post-hoc analyses in pediatric patients aged 12 to 18 years were also performed. Pediatric patients accounted for approximately 12% of patients in each treatment arm. Respiratory-related death or life-threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group (0.12% [2/1,653]) and the placebo group (0.12% [2/1,622]; relative risk: 1.0 [95% CI: 0.1, 7.2]). All-cause hospitalization, however, was increased in the salmeterol group (2% [35/1,653]) versus the placebo group (<1% [16/1,622]; relative risk: 2.1 [95% CI: 1.1, 3.7]). The data from the SMART study are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other active ingredient in ADVAIR DISKUS, or other long-term asthma control therapy mitigates the risk of asthma-related death. Table 1. Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) Salmeteroln (%a) Placebon (%a) Relative Riskb (95% ConfidenceInterval) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10,000 Patientsc (95% ConfidenceInterval) Total Populationd Salmeterol: N = 13,176 13 (0.10%) 4.37 (1.25, 15.34) 8 (3, 13) Placebo: N = 13,179 3 (0.02%) Caucasian Salmeterol: N = 9,281 6 (0.07%) 5.82 (0.70, 48.37) 6 (1, 10) Placebo: N = 9,361 1 (0.01%) African American Salmeterol: N = 2,366 7 (0.31%) 7.26 (0.89, 58.94) 27 (8, 46) Placebo: N = 2,319 1 (0.04%) aLife-table 28-week estimate, adjusted according to the patients’ actual lengths of exposure to study treatment to account for early withdrawal of patients from the study. bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma-related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group. The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma-related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28-week treatment period. cEstimate of the number of additional asthma-related deaths in patients treated with salmeterol in SMART, assuming 10,000 patients received salmeterol for a 28-week treatment period. Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma-related death multiplied by 10,000. dThe Total Population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form: Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and “Other.” In addition, the Total Population includes those patients whose ethnic origin was not reported. The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above. No asthma-related deaths occurred in the Hispanic (salmeterol n = 996, placebo n = 999), Asian (salmeterol n = 173, placebo n = 149), or “Other” (salmeterol n = 230, placebo n = 224) subpopulations. One asthma-related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported (salmeterol n = 130, placebo n = 127). Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment A 16-week clinical study performed in the United Kingdom, the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance (SNS) study, showed results similar to the SMART study. In the SNS study, the rate of asthma-related death was numerically, though not statistically significantly, greater in patients with asthma treated with salmeterol (42 mcg twice daily) than those treated with albuterol (180 mcg 4 times daily) added to usual asthma therapy. The SNS and SMART studies enrolled patients with asthma. No studies have been conducted that were primarily designed to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABAs. 5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes ADVAIR DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma or COPD. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. The initiation of ADVAIR DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily (morning and evening) of ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist, not ADVAIR DISKUS, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS, the physician must also provide the patient with an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular twice-daily (morning and evening) use of ADVAIR DISKUS. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. 5.3 Excessive Use of ADVAIR DISKUS and Use With Other Long-Acting Beta2-Agonists As with other inhaled drugs containing beta2-adrenergic agents, ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medications containing LABAs, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use an additional LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate) for any reason, including prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm (EIB) or the treatment of asthma or COPD. 5.4 Local Effects In clinical studies, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral antifungal) therapy while treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS. 5.5 Pneumonia Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of pneumonia and exacerbations frequently overlap. Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with COPD following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS. In 2 replicate 12-month studies of 1,579 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in patients over 65 years of age (9%) compared with the incidence in patients less than 65 years of age (4%). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] In a 3-year study of 6,184 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] 5.6 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.7 Transferring Patients From Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ADVAIR DISKUS may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to inhaled corticosteroids or ADVAIR DISKUS may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). Some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.8 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ADVAIR DISKUS in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS. Because of the possibility of systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when fluticasone propionate is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of ADVAIR DISKUS should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma symptoms. 5.9 Drug Interactions With Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm and Upper Airway Symptoms As with other inhaled medications, ADVAIR DISKUS can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ADVAIR DISKUS, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; ADVAIR DISKUS should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling, such as stridor and choking, have been reported in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and salmeterol. 5.11 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ADVAIR DISKUS, as demonstrated by cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, and bronchospasm. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not take ADVAIR DISKUS [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.12 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects Excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, and insomnia [see Overdosage (10)]. Therefore, ADVAIR DISKUS, like all products containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol (12 to 20 times the recommended dose) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. 5.13 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, post-menopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating ADVAIR DISKUS and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and ADVAIR DISKUS is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medication to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. 2-Year Fluticasone Propionate Study: A 2-year study of 160 patients (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving CFC-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 3-Year Bone Mineral Density Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 or salmeterol 50 mcg on BMD at the L1-L4 lumbar spine and total hip were evaluated in 186 patients with COPD (aged 43 to 87 years) in a 3-year double-blind study. Of those enrolled, 108 patients (72 males and 36 females) were followed for the entire 3 years. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 6-month intervals. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study regarding BMD decline in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS versus salmeterol due to the inconsistency of treatment differences across gender and between lumbar spine and total hip. In this study there were 7 non-traumatic fractures reported in 5 patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 1 non-traumatic fracture in 1 patient treated with salmeterol. None of the non-traumatic fractures occurred in the vertebrae, hip, or long bones. 3-Year Survival Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on BMD was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients (females and males aged 40 to 80 years) with COPD in the 3-year survival study. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study because of the large number of drop outs (>50%) before the end of the follow-up and the maldistribution of covariates among the treatment groups that can affect BMD. Fracture risk was estimated for the entire population of patients with COPD in the survival study (N = 6,184). The probability of a fracture over 3 years was 6.3% for ADVAIR DISKUS, 5.4% for fluticasone propionate, 5.1% for salmeterol, and 5.1% for placebo. 5.14 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR DISKUS, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4).] 5.15 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with asthma and COPD following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on development of cataracts or glaucoma was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients with COPD in the 3-year survival study. Ophthalmic examinations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions about cataracts cannot be drawn from this study because the high incidence of cataracts at baseline (61% to 71%) resulted in an inadequate number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 who were eligible and available for evaluation of cataracts at the end of the study (n = 53). The incidence of newly diagnosed glaucoma was 2% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 5% with fluticasone propionate, 0% with salmeterol, and 2% with placebo. 5.16 Eosinophilic Conditions and Churg-Strauss Syndrome In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established. 5.17 Coexisting Conditions ADVAIR DISKUS, like all medications containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. 5.18 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta-adrenergic agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical studies with ADVAIR DISKUS at recommended doses. Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=2
Page 2 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products, including fluticasone propionate nasal spray, with ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: •Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Effect on growth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most common adverse reactions (>3%) are headache, pharyngitis, epistaxis, nasal burning/nasal irritation, nausea/vomiting, asthma symptoms, and cough. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Roxane Laboratories, Inc. at 1-800-962-8364 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled US clinical trials, more than 3,300 subjects with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical trials have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by subjects treated with placebo. Less than 2% of subjects in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. The safety data described below are based on 7 placebo-controlled clinical trials in subjects with allergic rhinitis. The 7 trials included 536 subjects (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials which included 246 subjects (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 200 mcg once daily over 6 months (Table 1). Also included in Table 1 are adverse reactions from 2 trials in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Table 1: Adverse Reactions with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects ≥ 4 Years with Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Reaction Placebo (N = 758) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (N = 167) % Fluticasone Propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (N = 782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomiting 2 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray observed with an incidence less than or equal to 3% but great than or equal to 1% and more common than with placebo included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, and bronchitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders: Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Disorders: Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] ."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1) •Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.2) •Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray USP. Discontinue Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray USP if such reactions occur. (5.3) •Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.4) •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray USP slowly. (5.5) •Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.7) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis: In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks’ duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in subjects treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)] . Nasal Ulceration: Postmarketing cases of nasal ulceration have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)] . Candida Infection: In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Patients using fluticasone propionate nasal spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation: Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)] . Impaired Wound Healing: Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should avoid using fluticasone propionate nasal spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Use of intranasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)] . Rarely, immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the complete prescribing information for VZIG and IG.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal corticosteroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of fluticasone propionate nasal spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression). Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)] . 5.7 Effect on Growth Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving fluticasone propionate nasal spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate nasal spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=3
Page 3 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. ( 7.1) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products, including fluticasone propionate, with ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol.",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1)] Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.5)] Effect on growth [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7)] The most common adverse reactions (>3%) are headache, pharyngitis, epistaxis, nasal burning/nasal irritation, nausea/vomiting, asthma symptoms, and cough. ( 6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Apotex Corp. at 1-800-706-5575 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled US clinical trials, more than 3,300 subjects with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical trials have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by subjects treated with placebo. Less than 2% of subjects in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. The safety data described below are based on 7 placebo-controlled clinical trials in subjects with allergic rhinitis. The 7 trials included 536 subjects (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials which included 246 subjects (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 6 months (Table 1). Also included in Table 1 are adverse reactions from 2 trials in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with fluticasone propionate 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects ≥ 4 Years with Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Reaction Fluticasone propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Placebo (n=758) % Headache 6.6 16.1 14.6 Pharyngitis 6.0 7.8 7.2 Epistaxis 6.0 6.9 5.4 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.4 3.2 2.6 Nausea/vomiting 4.8 2.6 2.0 Asthma symptoms 7.2 3.3 2.9 Cough 3.6 3.8 2.8 Other adverse reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray observed with an incidence less than or equal to 3% but greater than or equal to 1% and more common than with placebo included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, and bronchitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Disorders Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.7)].",
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. ( 5.1) Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. ( 5.2) Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur. ( 5.3) Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. ( 5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray slowly. ( 5.5) Monitor growth of pediatric patients. ( 5.7) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks’ duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in subjects treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.1)] . Nasal Ulceration Postmarketing cases of nasal ulceration have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2)] . Candida Infection In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Patients using fluticasone propionate nasal spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions ( 6.2)] . Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should avoid using fluticasone propionate nasal spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Use of intranasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications ( 4)] . Rarely, immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the complete prescribing information for VZIG and IG.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal corticosteroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of fluticasone propionate nasal spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression). Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions ( 7.1), Clinical Pharmacology ( 12.3)] . 5.7 Effect on Growth Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4)]. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving fluticasone propionate nasal spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate nasal spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration ( 2), Use in Specific Populations ( 8.4)] ."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=4
Page 4 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug interactions Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4. A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions). During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. In a placebo-controlled, crossover study in 8 healthy volunteers, coadministration of a single dose of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg; 5 times the maximum daily intranasal dose) with multiple doses of ketoconazole (200 mg) to steady state resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, a reduction in plasma cortisol AUC, and no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Caution should be exercised when Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, is coadministered with ketoconazole and other known potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n=758) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 100 mcg Once Daily (n=167) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg Once Daily (n=782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomitting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Observed During Clinical Practice Practice: In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and Throat Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use)."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=5
Page 5 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products, including fluticasone propionate, with ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol.",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: 1.Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] 2.Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] 3.Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] 4.Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] 5.Effect on growth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most common adverse reactions (>3%) are headache, pharyngitis, epistaxis, nasal burning/nasal irritation, nausea/vomiting, asthma symptoms, and cough. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Apotex Corp. at 1-800-706-5575 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled US clinical trials, more than 3,300 subjects with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical trials have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by subjects treated with placebo. Less than 2% of subjects in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. The safety data described below are based on 7 placebo-controlled clinical trials in subjects with allergic rhinitis. The 7 trials included 536 subjects (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials which included 246 subjects (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 6 months (Table 1). Also included in Table 1 are adverse reactions from 2 trials in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with fluticasone propionate 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects ≥4 Years with Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Reaction Fluticasone propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Placebo (n=758)% Headache 6.6 16.1 14.6 Pharyngitis 6.0 7.8 7.2 Epistaxis 6.0 6.9 5.4 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.4 3.2 2.6 Nausea/vomiting 4.8 2.6 2.0 Asthma symptoms 7.2 3.3 2.9 Cough 3.6 3.8 2.8 Other adverse reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray observed with an incidence less than or equal to 3% but greater than or equal to 1% and more common than with placebo included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, and bronchitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Disorders Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)].",
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 1.Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1) 2.Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.2) 3.Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur. (5.3) 4.Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.4) 5.Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray slowly. (5.5) 6.Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.7) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks’ duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in subjects treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Nasal Ulceration Postmarketing cases of nasal ulceration have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Candida Infection In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Patients using fluticasone propionate nasal spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should avoid using fluticasone propionate nasal spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Use of intranasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)]. Rarely, immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the complete prescribing information for VZIG and IG.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal corticosteroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of fluticasone propionate nasal spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression). Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.7 Effect on Growth Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving fluticasone propionate nasal spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate nasal spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=6
Page 6 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug Interactions Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4. A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions ). During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. In a placebo-controlled, crossover study in 8 healthy volunteers, coadministration of a single dose of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg; 5 times the maximum daily intranasal dose) with multiple doses of ketoconazole (200 mg) to steady state resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, a reduction in plasma cortisol AUC, and no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Caution should be exercised when Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP is coadministered with ketoconazole and other known potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months' duration with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n = 758) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone Propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomiting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Observed During Clinical Practice In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General: Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and Throat: Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye: Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use )."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=7
Page 7 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug interactions Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4. A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions ). During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. In a placebo-controlled, crossover study in 8 healthy volunteers, coadministration of a single dose of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg; 5 times the maximum daily intranasal dose) with multiple doses of ketoconazole (200 mg) to steady state resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, a reduction in plasma cortisol AUC, and no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Caution should be exercised when Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, is coadministered with ketoconazole and other known potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n=758) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 100 mcg Once Daily (n=167) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg Once Daily (n=782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomitting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Observed During Clinical Practice Practice: In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and Throat Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use )."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=8
Page 8 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE (GLUCOCORTICOID)"
        "brand_name": [
          "ClariSpray Nasal Allergy"
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=9
Page 9 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=10
Page 10 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products, including fluticasone propionate, with ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol.",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Effect on growth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most common adverse reactions (>3%) are headache, pharyngitis, epistaxis, nasal burning/nasal irritation, nausea/vomiting, asthma symptoms, and cough. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Apotex Corp. at 1-800-706-5575 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled US clinical trials, more than 3,300 subjects with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical trials have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by subjects treated with placebo. Less than 2% of subjects in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. The safety data described below are based on 7 placebo-controlled clinical trials in subjects with allergic rhinitis. The 7 trials included 536 subjects (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials which included 246 subjects (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 6 months (Table 1). Also included in Table 1 are adverse reactions from 2 trials in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with fluticasone propionate 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects ≥4 Years with Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Reaction Fluticasone propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Placebo (n=758)% Headache 6.6 16.1 14.6 Pharyngitis 6.0 7.8 7.2 Epistaxis 6.0 6.9 5.4 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.4 3.2 2.6 Nausea/vomiting 4.8 2.6 2.0 Asthma symptoms 7.2 3.3 2.9 Cough 3.6 3.8 2.8 Other adverse reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray observed with an incidence less than or equal to 3% but greater than or equal to 1% and more common than with placebo included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, and bronchitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Disorders Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)].",
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1) Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.2) Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur. (5.3) Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray slowly. (5.5) Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.7) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks’ duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in subjects treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Nasal Ulceration Postmarketing cases of nasal ulceration have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Candida Infection In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Patients using fluticasone propionate nasal spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should avoid using fluticasone propionate nasal spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Use of intranasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)]. Rarely, immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the complete prescribing information for VZIG and IG.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal corticosteroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of fluticasone propionate nasal spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression). Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.7 Effect on Growth Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving fluticasone propionate nasal spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate nasal spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=11
Page 11 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "CHILDRENS FLONASE ALLERGY RELIEF"
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=12
Page 12 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug interactions Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4. A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions ). During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. In a placebo-controlled, crossover study in 8 healthy volunteers, coadministration of a single dose of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg; 5 times the maximum daily intranasal dose) with multiple doses of ketoconazole (200 mg) to steady state resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, a reduction in plasma cortisol AUC, and no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Caution should be exercised when Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, is coadministered with ketoconazole and other known potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n=758) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 100 mcg Once Daily (n=167) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg Once Daily (n=782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomitting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Observed During Clinical Practice Practice: In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and Throat Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use )."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=13
Page 13 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n=758) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 100 mcg Once Daily (n=167) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg Once Daily (n=782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomitting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Practice: In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use )."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=14
Page 14 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Ticanase"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products, including fluticasone propionate, with ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol.",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Effect on growth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most common adverse reactions (>3%) are headache, pharyngitis, epistaxis, nasal burning/nasal irritation, nausea/vomiting, asthma symptoms, and cough. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Apotex Corp. at 1-800-706-5575 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled US clinical trials, more than 3,300 subjects with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical trials have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by subjects treated with placebo. Less than 2% of subjects in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. The safety data described below are based on 7 placebo-controlled clinical trials in subjects with allergic rhinitis. The 7 trials included 536 subjects (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials which included 246 subjects (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 6 months (Table 1). Also included in Table 1 are adverse reactions from 2 trials in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with fluticasone propionate 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects ≥4 Years with Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Reaction Fluticasone propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Placebo (n=758)% Headache 6.6 16.1 14.6 Pharyngitis 6.0 7.8 7.2 Epistaxis 6.0 6.9 5.4 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.4 3.2 2.6 Nausea/vomiting 4.8 2.6 2.0 Asthma symptoms 7.2 3.3 2.9 Cough 3.6 3.8 2.8 Other adverse reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray observed with an incidence less than or equal to 3% but greater than or equal to 1% and more common than with placebo included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, and bronchitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Disorders Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)].",
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1) Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.2) Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur. (5.3) Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray slowly. (5.5) Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.7) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks’ duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in subjects treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Nasal Ulceration Postmarketing cases of nasal ulceration have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Candida Infection In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Patients using fluticasone propionate nasal spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should avoid using fluticasone propionate nasal spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Use of intranasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)]. Rarely, immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the complete prescribing information for VZIG and IG.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal corticosteroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of fluticasone propionate nasal spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression). Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.7 Effect on Growth Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving fluticasone propionate nasal spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate nasal spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=15
Page 15 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug Interactions Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4. Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and the highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor ritonavir is not recommended based upon a multiple-dose, crossover drug interaction study in 18 healthy subjects. Fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray (200 mcg once daily) was coadministered for 7 days with ritonavir (100 mg twice daily). Plasma fluticasone propionate concentrations following fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray alone were undetectable (<10 pg/mL) in most subjects, and when concentrations were detectable peak levels (Cmax averaged 11.9 pg/mL [range, 10.8 to 14.1 pg/mL] and AUC(0-τ) averaged 8.43 pg•hr/mL [range, 4.2 to 18.8 pg•hr/mL]). Fluticasone propionate Cmax and AUC(0-τ) increased to 318 pg/mL (range, 110 to 648 pg/mL) and 3,102.6 pg•hr/mL (range, 1,207.1 to 5,662.0 pg•hr/mL), respectively, after coadministration of ritonavir with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray. This significant increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure resulted in a significant decrease (86%) in plasma cortisol area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC). Caution should be exercised when other potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors are coadministered with fluticasone propionate. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in increased fluticasone propionate exposure and reduced plasma cortisol AUC, but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. In another multiple-dose drug interaction study, coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (500 mcg twice daily) and erythromycin (333 mg 3 times daily) did not affect fluticasone propionate pharmacokinetics.",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with fluticasone propionate nasal spray. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking fluticasone propionate nasal spray in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n = 758) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone Propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomiting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Observed During Clinical Practice In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and Throat Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use)."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=16
Page 16 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "AZELASTINE HYDROCHLORIDE AND FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "DYMISTA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with DYMISTA. The drug interactions of the combination are expected to reflect those of the individual components. Potent inhibitors of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4: May increase blood levels of fluticasone propionate. Ritanovir: Coadministration is not recommended. (5.6, 7.2) Other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole: use caution with coadministration. (5.6, 7.2) 7.1 Central Nervous System Depressants Concurrent use of DYMISTA with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants should be avoided because somnolence and impairment of central nervous system performance may occur [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 7.2 Cytochrome P450 3A4 Ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) significantly increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure following administration of fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. Ketoconazole (also a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor), administered in multiple 200 mg doses to steady-state, increased plasma exposure of fluticasone propionate, reduced plasma cortisol AUC, but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol, following administration of a single 1000 mcg dose of fluticasone propionate by oral inhalation route. Caution should be exercised when DYMISTA is coadministered with ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Somnolence [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Local nasal effects, including epistaxis, nasal ulceration, nasal septal perforation, impaired wound healing, and Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis effects, including growth reduction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5 and 5.7), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] The most common adverse reactions (≥2% incidence) are: dysgeusia, epistaxis, and headache. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Meda Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-888-939-6478 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect rates observed in practice. Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older The safety data described below in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older reflect exposure to DYMISTA in 853 patients (12 years of age and older; 36% male and 64% female) with seasonal allergic rhinitis in 3 double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials of 2-week duration. The racial distribution for the 3 clinical trials was 80% white, 16% black, 2% Asian, and 1% other. In the 3 placebo controlled clinical trials of 2-week duration, 3411 patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis were treated with 1 spray per nostril of DYMISTA, azelastine hydrochloride nasal spray, fluticasone propionate nasal spray, or placebo, twice daily. The azelastine hydrochloride and fluticasone propionate comparators use the same vehicle and device as DYMISTA and are not commercially marketed. Overall, adverse reactions were 16% in the DYMISTA treatment groups, 15% in the azelastine hydrochloride nasal spray groups, 13% in the fluticasone propionate nasal spray groups, and 12% in the placebo groups. Overall, 1% of patients in both the DYMISTA and placebo groups discontinued due to adverse reactions. Table 1 contains adverse reactions reported with frequencies greater than or equal to 2% and more frequently than placebo in patients treated with DYMISTA in the seasonal allergic rhinitis controlled clinical trials. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with ≥2% Incidence and More Frequently than Placebo in Placebo-Controlled Trials of 2 Weeks Duration with DYMISTA in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis *Safety population N=853, intent-to-treat population N=848 † Not commercially marketed 1 spray per nostril twice daily DYMISTA (N=853)* Azelastine Hydrochloride Nasal Spray† (N=851) Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray† (N=846) Vehicle Placebo (N=861) Dysgeusia 30(4%) 44(5%) 4(1%) 2(<1%) Headache 18(2%) 20(2%) 20(2%) 10(1%) Epistaxis 16(2%) 14(2%) 14(2%) 15(2%) In the above trials, somnolence was reported in <1% of patients treated with DYMISTA (6 of 853) or vehicle placebo (1 of 861) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Pediatric Patients 6-11 Years of Age The safety data described below in children 6-11 years of age reflect exposure to DYMISTA in 152 patients (6-11 years of age; 57% male and 43% female) with seasonal allergic rhinitis in one double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of 2-week duration. The racial distribution for the clinical trial was 69% white, 31% black, 2% Asian and 2% other. In the placebo-controlled clinical trial of 2-week duration, patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis were treated with 1 spray per nostril of DYMISTA or placebo, twice daily. Overall, adverse reactions were 16% in the DYMISTA treatment group, and 12% in the placebo group. Overall, 1% of patients in both the DYMISTA and placebo groups discontinued due to adverse reactions. Table 2 contains adverse reactions reported with frequencies greater than or equal to 2% and more frequently than placebo in patients treated with DYMISTA in the seasonal allergic rhinitis controlled clinical trial. Table 2. Adverse Reactions with ≥2% Incidence and More Frequently than Placebo in Placebo-Controlled Trials of 2 Weeks Duration with DYMISTA in Children 6 to 11 Years of Age With Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis *Safety population N=152, intent-to-treat population N=152 1 spray per nostril twice daily DYMISTA (N=152)* Vehicle Placebo (N=152) Dysgeusia 6 (4%) 0 (0%) Epistaxis 6 (4%) 4 (3%) In the above trial, somnolence was not reported [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Long-Term (12-Month) Safety Trial in Adults and Adolescents 12 Years of Age and Older: In the 12-month open-label, active-controlled clinical trial, 404 Asian patients (240 males and 164 females) with perennial allergic rhinitis or vasomotor rhinitis were treated with DYMISTA, 1 spray per nostril twice daily. In the 12-month, open-label, active-controlled, long-term safety trial in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older, 404 patients with perennial allergic rhinitis or vasomotor rhinitis were treated with DYMISTA 1 spray per nostril twice daily and 207 patients were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray, 2 sprays per nostril once daily. Overall, adverse reactions were 47% in the DYMISTA treatment group and 44% in the fluticasone propionate nasal spray group. The most frequently reported adverse reactions (≥ 2%) with DYMISTA were headache, pyrexia, cough, nasal congestion, rhinitis, dysgeusia, viral infection, upper respiratory tract infection, pharyngitis, pain, diarrhea, and epistaxis. In the DYMISTA treatment group, 7 patients (2%) had mild epistaxis and 1 patient (<1%) had moderate epistaxis. In the fluticasone propionate nasal spray treatment group 1 patient (<1%) had mild epistaxis. No patients had reports of severe epistaxis. Focused nasal examinations were performed and no nasal ulcerations or septal perforations were observed. Eleven of 404 patients (3%) treated with DYMISTA and 6 of 207 patients (3%) treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray discontinued from the trial due to adverse events. Long-Term (3-Month) Safety Trial in Pediatric Patients 6-11 Years of Age In the 3-month open label active-controlled clinical trial, 264 patients (60% male, 40% female) (80% white, 19% black, 4% Asian and 2% other) with allergic rhinitis were treated with DYMISTA, 1 spray per nostril twice daily. In the 3-month, open label, active-controlled, safety trial in pediatric patients 6-11 years of age 264 patients (128 patients ≥6 to <9 years of age, and 136 patients ≥9 to <12 years of age) with allergic rhinitis (based on the Investigator’s assessment) were treated with DYMISTA, 1 spray per nostril twice daily and 89 patients (44 patients ≥6 to <9 years of age, and 45 patients ≥9 to <12 years of age) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray, 1 spray per nostril twice daily. Overall, adverse reactions were 40% in the DYMISTA treatment group and 36% in the fluticasone propionate nasal spray group. The most frequently reported adverse reactions (≥2%) with DYMISTA were epistaxis, headache, oropharyngeal pain, vomiting, upper abdominal pain, cough, pyrexia, otitis media, upper respiratory tract infection, diarrhea, nausea, otitis externa, and urticaria. In the DYMISTA treatment group 23 patients (9%) had mild epistaxis and 3 patients (1%) had moderate epistaxis. In the fluticasone propionate nasal spray treatment group 8 patients (9%) had mild epistaxis. No patients had reports of severe epistaxis. Focused nasal examinations were performed and no ulcerations or septal perforations were observed. Four of 264 patients (2%) treated with DYMISTA and 3 of 89 (3%) treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray discontinued from the trial due to adverse events. There were two reports of somnolence, one severe, among children taking DYMISTA [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following spontaneous adverse events have been reported with DYMISTA or one of the components (azelastine and fluticasone). Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Cardiac disorders: atrial fibrillation, increased heart rate, palpitations Eye disorder: blurred vision, cataracts, conjunctivitis, dryness and irritation, eye swelling, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, vision abnormal, xerophthalmia Gastrointestinal disorders: nausea, vomiting General disorders and administration site condition: aches and pain, application site irritation, chest pain, edema of face and tongue, fatigue, tolerance Immune system disorders: anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions which in rare instances were severe, hypersensitivity reactions Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: growth suppression [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] Nervous system disorders: disturbance or loss of smell and/ or taste, dizziness, involuntary muscle contractions, paresthesia, parosmia Psychiatric disorders: anxiety, confusion, nervousness Renal and urinary disorders: urinary retention Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: bronchospasm, cough, dysphonia, dyspnea, hoarseness, nasal septal perforation, nasal discomfort, nasal dryness, nasal sores, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat dryness and irritation, voice changes, wheezing Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorder: angioedema, erythema, face swelling, pruritus, rash, urticaria Vascular disorder: hypertension"
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Somnolence: Avoid engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness such as driving or operating machinery when taking DYMISTA. (5.1) Avoid concurrent use of alcohol or other central nervous system (CNS) depressants with DYMISTA because further decreased alertness and impairment of CNS performance may occur. (5.1) Epistaxis, nasal ulcerations, nasal septal perforation, impaired wound healing, Candida albicans infection. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.2) Glaucoma or posterior subcapsular cataracts: Monitor patients closely with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. (5.3) Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patients with the above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue DYMISTA slowly. (5.5) Potential reduction in growth velocity in children. Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving DYMISTA. (5.7, 8.4) 5.1 Somnolence In clinical trials, the occurrence of somnolence has been reported in some patients (6 of 853 adult and adolescent patients and 2 of 416 children) taking DYMISTA in placebo controlled trials [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Patients should be cautioned against engaging in hazardous occupations requiring complete mental alertness and motor coordination such as operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle after administration of DYMISTA. Concurrent use of DYMISTA with alcohol or other central nervous system depressants should be avoided because additional reductions in alertness and additional impairment of central nervous system performance may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1)]. 5.2 Local Nasal Effects In clinical trials of 2 to 52 weeks' duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in patients treated with DYMISTA than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Instances of nasal ulceration and nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients following the intranasal application of corticosteroids. There were no instances of nasal ulceration or nasal septal perforation observed in clinical trials with DYMISTA. Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should avoid use of DYMISTA until healing has occurred. In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of treatment with DYMISTA. Patients using DYMISTA over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. 5.3 Glaucoma and Cataracts Nasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Glaucoma and cataract formation were evaluated with intraocular pressure measurements and slit lamp examinations in a controlled 12-month study in 612 adolescent and adult patients aged 12 years and older with perennial allergic or vasomotor rhinitis (VMR). Of the 612 patients enrolled in the study, 405 were randomized to receive DYMISTA (1 spray per nostril twice daily) and 207 were randomized to receive fluticasone propionate nasal spray (2 sprays per nostril once daily). In the DYMISTA group, one patient had increased intraocular pressure at month 6. In addition, three patients had evidence of posterior subcapsular cataract at month 6 and one at month 12 (end of treatment). In the fluticasone propionate group, three patients had evidence of posterior subcapsular cataract at month 12 (end of treatment). 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs, such as corticosteroids, that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections; systemic viral or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for worsening of these infections. 5.5 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) Axis Effects When intranasal steroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of DYMISTA should be discontinued slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The concomitant use of intranasal corticosteroids with other inhaled corticosteroids could increase the risk of signs or symptoms of hypercorticism and/or suppression of the HPA axis. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency, and in addition some patients may experience symptoms of withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression. Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, too rapid a decrease in systemic corticosteroids may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Use of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors Ritonavir and other strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of DYMISTA and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. Use caution with the coadministration of DYMISTA and other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.7 Effect on Growth Corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving DYMISTA [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=17
Page 17 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE FUROATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "VERAMYST"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Fluticasone furoate is cleared by extensive first-pass metabolism mediated by CYP3A4. In a drug interaction study of intranasal fluticasone furoate and the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole given as a 200-mg once-daily dose for 7 days, 6 of 20 subjects receiving fluticasone furoate and ketoconazole had measurable but low levels of fluticasone furoate compared with 1 of 20 receiving fluticasone furoate and placebo. Based on this study and the low systemic exposure, there was a 5% reduction in 24-hour serum cortisol levels with ketoconazole compared with placebo. The data from this study should be carefully interpreted because the study was conducted with ketoconazole 200 mg once daily rather than 400 mg, which is the maximum recommended dosage. Therefore, caution is required with the coadministration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray and ketoconazole or other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors. Based on data with another glucocorticoid, fluticasone propionate, metabolized by CYP3A4, coadministration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray with the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ritonavir is not recommended because of the risk of systemic effects secondary to increased exposure to fluticasone furoate. High exposure to corticosteroids increases the potential for systemic side effects, such as cortisol suppression. Enzyme induction and inhibition data suggest that fluticasone furoate is unlikely to significantly alter the cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism of other compounds at clinically relevant intranasal dosages. Potent inhibitors of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) may increase exposure to fluticasone furoate. Coadministration of ritonavir is not recommended. (5.6, 7) Use caution with coadministration of other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole. (5.6, 7)"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, ulcerations, Candida albicans infection, impaired wound healing, and nasal septal perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis effects, including growth reduction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] The most common adverse reactions (>1% incidence) included headache, epistaxis, pharyngolaryngeal pain, nasal ulceration, back pain, pyrexia, and cough. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience The safety data described below reflect exposure to VERAMYST Nasal Spray in 1,563 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis in 9 controlled clinical trials of 2 to 12 weeks’ duration. The data from adults and adolescents are based upon 6 clinical trials in which 768 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis (473 females and 295 males aged 12 years and older) were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily for 2 to 6 weeks. The racial distribution of adult and adolescent patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was 82% white, 5% black, and 13% other. The data from pediatric patients are based upon 3 clinical trials in which 795 children with seasonal or perennial rhinitis (352 females and 443 males aged 2 to 11 years) were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 55 or 110 mcg once daily for 2 to 12 weeks. The racial distribution of pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was 75% white, 11% black, and 14% other. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults and Adolescents Aged 12 Years and Older: Overall adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray and those receiving placebo. Less than 3% of patients in clinical trials discontinued treatment because of adverse reactions. The rate of withdrawal among patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was similar or lower than the rate among patients receiving placebo. Table 1 displays the common adverse reactions (>1% in any patient group receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray) that occurred more frequently in patients aged 12 years and older treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 1. Adverse Reactions With >1% Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials of 2 to 6 Weeks’ Duration With VERAMYST Nasal Spray in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Event Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older Vehicle Placebo (n = 774) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg Once Daily (n = 768) Headache 54 (7%) 72 (9%) Epistaxis 32 (4%) 45 (6%) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 8 (1%) 15 (2%) Nasal ulceration 3 (<1%) 11 (1%) Back pain 7 (<1%) 9 (1%) There were no differences in the incidence of adverse reactions based on gender or race. Clinical trials did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Pediatric Patients Aged 2 to 11 Years: In the 3 clinical trials in pediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years, overall adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray and those receiving placebo. Table 2 displays the common adverse reactions (>3% in any patient group receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray), that occurred more frequently in patients aged 2 to 11 years treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With >3% Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials of 2 to 12 Weeks’ Duration With VERAMYST Nasal Spray in Pediatric Patients With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Event Pediatric Patients Aged 2 to <12 Years Vehicle Placebo (n = 429) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 55 mcg Once Daily (n = 369) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg Once Daily (n = 426) Headache 31 (7%) 28 (8%) 33 (8%) Nasopharyngitis 21 (5%) 20 (5%) 21 (5%) Epistaxis 19 (4%) 17 (5%) 17 (4%) Pyrexia 7 (2%) 17 (5%) 19 (4%) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 14 (3%) 16 (4%) 12 (3%) Cough 12 (3%) 12 (3%) 16 (4%) There were no differences in the incidence of adverse reactions based on gender or race. Pyrexia occurred more frequently in children aged 2 to <6 years compared with children aged 6 to <12 years. Long-Term (52-Week) Safety Trial: In a 52-week, placebo-controlled, long-term safety trial, 605 patients (307 females and 298 males aged 12 years and older) with perennial allergic rhinitis were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily for 12 months and 201 were treated with placebo nasal spray. While most adverse reactions were similar in type and rate between the treatment groups, epistaxis occurred more frequently in patients who received VERAMYST Nasal Spray (123/605, 20%) than in patients who received placebo (17/201, 8%). Epistaxis tended to be more severe in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray. All 17 reports of epistaxis that occurred in patients who received placebo were of mild intensity, while 83, 39, and 1 of the total 123 epistaxis events in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray were of mild, moderate, and severe intensity, respectively. No patient experienced a nasal septal perforation during this trial. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone furoate or a combination of these factors. Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Rhinalgia, nasal discomfort (including nasal burning, nasal irritation, and nasal soreness), nasal dryness, and nasal septal perforation."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1) Development of glaucoma or posterior subcapsular cataracts. Monitor patients closely with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. (5.2) Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria, may occur after administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. (5.3) Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patients with the above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue VERAMYST Nasal Spray slowly. (5.5) Potential reduction in growth velocity in children. Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray. (5.7, 8.4) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis and Nasal Ulceration: In clinical studies of 2 to 52 weeks’ duration, epistaxis and nasal ulcerations were observed more frequently and some epistaxis events were more severe in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Candida Infection: Evidence of localized infections of the nose with Candida albicans was seen on nasal exams in 7 of 2,745 patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray during clinical trials and was reported as an adverse event in 3 patients. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Therefore, patients using VERAMYST Nasal Spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation: Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients following the intranasal application of VERAMYST Nasal Spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing: Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should not use VERAMYST Nasal Spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Nasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Glaucoma and cataract formation was evaluated with intraocular pressure measurements and slit lamp examinations in 1 controlled 12-month study in 806 adolescent and adult patients aged 12 years and older and in 1 controlled 12-week study in 558 children aged 2 to 11 years. The patients had perennial allergic rhinitis and were treated with either VERAMYST Nasal Spray (110 mcg once daily in adult and adolescent patients and 55 or 110 mcg once daily in pediatric patients) or placebo. Intraocular pressure remained within the normal range (<21 mmHg) in ≥98% of the patients in any treatment group in both studies. However, in the 12-month study in adolescents and adults, 12 patients, all treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily, had intraocular pressure measurements that increased above normal levels (≥21 mmHg). In the same study, 7 patients (6 treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily and 1 patient treated with placebo) had cataracts identified during the study that were not present at baseline. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions, Including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria, may occur after administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Discontinue VERAMYST Nasal Spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases or have not been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox or measles develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract, untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections, systemic viral or parasitic infections, or ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for worsening of these infections. 5.5 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Effects Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression: When intranasal steroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of VERAMYST Nasal Spray should be discontinued slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression. Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Use of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration with ritonavir is not recommended because of the risk of systemic effects secondary to increased exposure to fluticasone furoate. Use caution with the coadministration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray and other potent cytochrome P450 3A4(CYP3A4) inhibitors, such as ketoconazole [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.7 Effect on Growth Corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including VERAMYST Nasal Spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=18
Page 18 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL"
        "brand_name": [
          "ADVAIR DISKUS"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta2-agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD without adverse drug reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. No formal drug interaction trials have been performed with ADVAIR DISKUS. •Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. (7.1) •Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of salmeterol on vascular system. (7.2) •Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. (7.3) •Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with non–potassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. (7.4) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction trial in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and Cmax increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. 7.3 Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma or COPD. Therefore, patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Non–Potassium-Sparing Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non–potassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of ADVAIR DISKUS with non–potassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS LABA, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled U.S. trial that compared the safety of salmeterol or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Pneumonia in patients with COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Reduction in bone mineral density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] •Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] •Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 3%) include: •Asthma: Upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, pharyngitis, dysphonia, oral candidiasis, bronchitis, cough, headaches, nausea and vomiting. (6.1) •COPD: Pneumonia, oral candidiasis, throat irritation, dysphonia, viral respiratory infections, headaches, musculoskeletal pain. (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Asthma Adult and Adolescent Subjects Aged 12 Years and Older The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR DISKUS in Table 2 is based upon two 12-week, placebo-controlled, U.S. clinical trials (Trials 1 and 2). A total of 705 adult and adolescent subjects (349 females and 356 males) previously treated with salmeterol or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS (100/50- or 250/50-mcg doses), fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100- or 250-mcg doses), salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. The average duration of exposure was 60 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 42 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions with ADVAIR DISKUS with ≥3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Adult and Adolescent Subjects with Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (n = 92) % ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (n = 84) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (n = 90) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (n = 84) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (n = 180) % Placebo (n = 175) % Ear, nose, and throat Upper respiratory tract infection 27 21 29 25 19 14 Pharyngitis 13 10 7 12 8 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 7 6 7 8 8 5 Sinusitis 4 5 6 1 3 4 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 2 2 4 <1 <1 Oral candidiasis 1 4 2 2 0 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 4 4 4 10 6 3 Bronchitis 2 8 1 2 2 2 Cough 3 6 0 0 3 2 Neurology Headaches 12 13 14 8 10 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea and vomiting 4 6 3 4 1 1 Gastrointestinal discomfort and pain 4 1 0 2 1 1 Diarrhea 4 2 2 2 1 1 Viral gastrointestinal infections 3 0 3 1 2 2 Non-site specific Candidiasis unspecified site 3 0 1 4 0 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 4 2 1 5 3 3 The types of adverse reactions and events reported in Trial 3, a 28-week non-U.S. clinical trial in 503 subjects previously treated with inhaled corticosteroids who were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg used concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, were similar to those reported in Table 2. Additional Adverse Reactions Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by subjects with asthma treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with subjects treated with placebo include the following: lymphatic signs and symptoms; muscle injuries; fractures; wounds and lacerations; contusions and hematomas; ear signs and symptoms; nasal signs and symptoms; nasal sinus disorders; keratitis and conjunctivitis; dental discomfort and pain; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; oral discomfort and pain; lower respiratory signs and symptoms; pneumonia; muscle stiffness, tightness, and rigidity; bone and cartilage disorders; sleep disorders; compressed nerve syndromes; viral infections; pain; chest symptoms; fluid retention; bacterial infections; unusual taste; viral skin infections; skin flakiness and acquired ichthyosis; disorders of sweat and sebum. Pediatric Subjects Aged 4 to 11 Years The safety data for pediatric subjects aged 4 to 11 years is based upon 1 U.S. trial of 12 weeks’ treatment duration. A total of 203 subjects (74 females and 129 males) who were receiving inhaled corticosteroids at trial entry were randomized to either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily. Common adverse reactions (greater than or equal to 3% and greater than placebo) seen in the pediatric subjects but not reported in the adult and adolescent clinical trials include: throat irritation and ear, nose, and throat infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in greater than or equal to 1% of subjects in clinical trials. The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the trials. In addition, there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Short-Term (6 Months to 1 Year) Trials The short-term safety data are based on exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily in one 6-month and two 1-year clinical trials. In the 6-month trial, a total of 723 adult subjects (266 females and 457 males) were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder, or placebo. The mean age of the subjects was 64, and the majority (93%) was Caucasian. In this trial, 70% of the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS reported an adverse reaction compared with 64% on placebo. The average duration of exposure to Advair Diskus 250/50 was 141.3 days compared with 131.6 days for placebo. The incidence of adverse reactions in the 6-month trial is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Overall Adverse Reactions with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 with ≥3% Incidence in Subjects with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Associated with Chronic Bronchitis Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (n = 178) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (n = 183) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (n = 177) % Placebo (n = 185) % Ear, nose, and throat Candidiasis mouth/throat 10 6 3 1 Throat irritation 8 5 4 7 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 3 <1 0 Sinusitis 3 8 5 3 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 6 4 3 3 Neurology Headaches 16 11 10 12 Dizziness 4 <1 3 2 Non-site specific Fever 4 3 0 3 Malaise and fatigue 3 2 2 3 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 9 8 12 9 Muscle cramps and spasms 3 3 1 1 In the two 1-year trials, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was compared with salmeterol in 1,579 subjects (863 males and 716 females). The mean age of the subjects was 65 years, and the majority (94%) was Caucasian. To be enrolled, all of the subjects had to have had a COPD exacerbation in the previous 12 months. In this trial, 88% of the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 86% of the subjects treated with salmeterol reported an adverse event. The most common events that occurred with a frequency of greater than 5% and more frequently in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, back pain, sinusitis, dizziness, nausea, pneumonia, candidiasis, and dysphonia. Overall, 55 (7%) of the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 25 (3%) of the subjects treated with salmeterol developed pneumonia. The incidence of pneumonia was higher in subjects older than 65 years, 9% in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with 4% in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS younger than 65 years. In the subjects treated with salmeterol, the incidence of pneumonia was the same (3%) in both age-groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Long-Term (3 Years) Trial The safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international, 3-year trial in 6,184 adult subjects with COPD (4,684 males and 1,500 females). The mean age of the subjects was 65 years, and the majority (82%) was Caucasian. The distribution of adverse events was similar to that seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. In addition, pneumonia was reported in a significantly increased number of subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg (16% and 14%, respectively) compared with subjects treated with salmeterol 50 mcg or placebo (11% and 9%, respectively). When adjusted for time on treatment, the rates of pneumonia were 84 and 88 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the groups treated with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg and with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, compared with 52 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the salmeterol and placebo groups. Similar to what was seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in subjects older than 65 years (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with subjects younger than 65 years (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Additional Adverse Reactions Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by subjects with COPD treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with subjects treated with placebo include the following: syncope; ear, nose, and throat infections; ear signs and symptoms; laryngitis; nasal congestion/blockage; nasal sinus disorders; pharyngitis/throat infection; hypothyroidism; dry eyes; eye infections; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral lesions; abnormal liver function tests; bacterial infections; edema and swelling; viral infections. Laboratory Abnormalities There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials. Specifically, no increased reporting of neutrophilia or changes in glucose or potassium was noted. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR DISKUS, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), ventricular tachycardia. Endocrine Disorders Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism. Eye Disorders Glaucoma. Gastrointestinal Disorders Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, xerostomia. Immune System Disorders Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reaction (including very rare anaphylactic reaction). Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy. Infections and Infestations Esophageal candidiasis. Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders Hyperglycemia, weight gain. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders Arthralgia, cramps, myositis, osteoporosis. Nervous System Disorders Paresthesia, restlessness. Psychiatric Disorders Agitation, aggression, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders Dysmenorrhea. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Chest congestion; chest tightness; dyspnea; facial and oropharyngeal edema, immediate bronchospasm; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Ecchymoses, photodermatitis. Vascular Disorders Pallor."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •LABA increase the risk of asthma-related death and asthma-related hospitalizations. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. (5.1) •Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. Do not use to treat acute symptoms. (5.2) •Do not use in combination with an additional medicine containing LABA because of risk of overdose. (5.3) • Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx may occur. Monitor patients periodically. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing after inhalation to help reduce the risk. (5.4) •Increased risk of pneumonia in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. (5.5) •Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.6) •Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from systemic corticosteroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.7) •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS slowly. (5.8) •If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS and institute alternative therapy. (5.10) •Use with caution in patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. (5.12) •Assess for decrease in bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.13) •Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.14) •Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.15) •Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. (5.16, 5.18) •Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.17) 5.1 Asthma-Related Death LABA, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe ADVAIR DISKUS for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use ADVAIR DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A large placebo-controlled U.S. trial that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol. The Salmeterol Multicenter Asthma Research Trial (SMART) was a randomized double-blind trial that enrolled LABA-naive subjects with asthma to assess the safety of salmeterol 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy. A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of subjects had been enrolled (N = 26,355), which led to premature termination of the trial. The results of the interim analysis showed that subjects receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events (Table 1 and Figure 1). In the total population, a higher rate of asthma-related death occurred in subjects treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.10% versus 0.02%; relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Post hoc subpopulation analyses were performed. In Caucasians, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in subjects treated with salmeterol than in subjects treated with placebo (0.07% versus 0.01%; relative risk: 5.82 [95% CI: 0.70, 48.37]). In African Americans also, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in subjects treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.31% versus 0.04%; relative risk: 7.26 [95% CI: 0.89, 58.94]). Although the relative risks of asthma-related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans, the estimate of excess deaths in subjects treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma-related death in African American subjects (Table 1). Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta2-agonists, the findings seen in the SMART trial are considered a class effect. Post hoc analyses in pediatric subjects aged 12 to 18 years were also performed. Pediatric subjects accounted for approximately 12% of subjects in each treatment arm. Respiratory-related death or life-threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group (0.12% [2/1,653]) and the placebo group (0.12% [2/1,622]; relative risk: 1.0 [95% CI: 0.1, 7.2]). All-cause hospitalization, however, was increased in the salmeterol group (2% [35/1,653]) versus the placebo group (less than 1% [16/1,622]; relative risk: 2.1 [95% CI: 1.1, 3.7]). The data from the SMART trial are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other active ingredient in ADVAIR DISKUS, or other long-term asthma control therapy mitigates the risk of asthma-related death. Table 1. Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multicenter Asthma Research Trial (SMART) Salmeterol n (%a) Placebo n (%a) Relative Riskb (95% Confidence Interval) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10,000 Subjectsc (95% Confidence Interval) Total Populationd Salmeterol: n = 13,176 13 (0.10%) 4.37 (1.25, 15.34) 8 (3, 13) Placebo: n = 13,179 3 (0.02%) Caucasian Salmeterol: n = 9,281 6 (0.07%) 5.82 (0.70, 48.37) 6 (1, 10) Placebo: n = 9,361 1 (0.01%) African American Salmeterol: n = 2,366 7 (0.31%) 7.26 (0.89, 58.94) 27 (8, 46) Placebo: n = 2,319 1 (0.04%) aLife-table 28-week estimate, adjusted according to the subjects’ actual lengths of exposure to trial treatment to account for early withdrawal of subjects from the trial. bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma-related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group. The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma-related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28-week treatment period. cEstimate of the number of additional asthma-related deaths in subjects treated with salmeterol in SMART, assuming 10,000 subjects received salmeterol for a 28-week treatment period. Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma-related death multiplied by 10,000. dThe Total Population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form: Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and “Other.” In addition, the Total Population includes those subjects whose ethnic origin was not reported. The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above. No asthma-related deaths occurred in the Hispanic (salmeterol n = 996, placebo n = 999), Asian (salmeterol n = 173, placebo n = 149), or “Other” (salmeterol n = 230, placebo n = 224) subpopulations. One asthma-related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported (salmeterol n = 130, placebo n = 127). Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multicenter Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment A 16-week clinical trial performed in the United Kingdom, the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance (SNS) trial, showed results similar to the SMART trial. In the SNS trial, the rate of asthma-related death was numerically, though not statistically significantly, greater in subjects with asthma treated with salmeterol (42 mcg twice daily) than those treated with albuterol (180 mcg 4 times daily) added to usual asthma therapy. The SNS and SMART trials enrolled subjects with asthma. No trials have been conducted that were primarily designed to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABA. Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment 5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes ADVAIR DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma or COPD. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in subjects with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. The initiation of ADVAIR DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily of ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist, not ADVAIR DISKUS, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS, the healthcare provider should also prescribe an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular twice-daily use of ADVAIR DISKUS. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. 5.3 Excessive Use of ADVAIR DISKUS and Use with Other Long-Acting Beta2-Agonists ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medicines containing LABA, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use another medicine containing a LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate, indacaterol) for any reason. 5.4 Local Effects of Inhaled Corticosteroids In clinical trials, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral) antifungal therapy while treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing following inhalation to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. 5.5 Pneumonia Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of pneumonia and exacerbations frequently overlap. Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with COPD following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS. In 2 replicate 1-year trials in 1,579 subjects with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in subjects older than 65 years (9%) compared with the incidence in subjects younger than 65 years (4%). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] In a 3-year trial in 6,184 subjects with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in subjects older than 65 years (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with subjects younger than 65 years (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] 5.6 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.7 Transferring Patients from Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ADVAIR DISKUS may control asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [AM PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to ADVAIR DISKUS may unmask allergic conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). During withdrawal from oral corticosteroids, some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.8 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ADVAIR DISKUS in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS. Because of the possibility of significant systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids in sensitive patients, patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients who are sensitive to these effects. If such effects occur, ADVAIR DISKUS should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids, and other treatments for management of asthma symptoms should be considered. 5.9 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm and Upper Airway Symptoms As with other inhaled medicines, ADVAIR DISKUS can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ADVAIR DISKUS, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; ADVAIR DISKUS should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling, such as stridor and choking, have been reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS. 5.11 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., urticaria, angioedema, rash, bronchospasm, hypotension), including anaphylaxis, may occur after administration of ADVAIR DISKUS. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy after inhalation of powder products containing lactose; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not use ADVAIR DISKUS [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.12 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects Excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, and insomnia [see Overdosage (10)]. Therefore, ADVAIR DISKUS, like all products containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram (ECG) changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol (12 to 20 times the recommended dose) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. 5.13 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, postmenopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating ADVAIR DISKUS and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and ADVAIR DISKUS is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medicine to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. 2-Year Fluticasone Propionate Trial A 2-year trial in 160 subjects (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving CFC-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 3-Year Bone Mineral Density Trial Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 or salmeterol 50 mcg on BMD at the L1-L4 lumbar spine and total hip were evaluated in 186 subjects with COPD (aged 43 to 87 years) in a 3-year double-blind trial. Of those enrolled, 108 subjects (72 males and 36 females) were followed for the entire 3 years. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 6-month intervals. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this trial regarding BMD decline in subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS versus salmeterol due to the inconsistency of treatment differences across gender and between lumbar spine and total hip. In this trial there were 7 non-traumatic fractures reported in 5 subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 1 non-traumatic fracture in 1 subject treated with salmeterol. None of the non-traumatic fractures occurred in the vertebrae, hip, or long bones. 3-Year Survival Trial Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on BMD was evaluated in a subset of 658 subjects (females and males aged 40 to 80 years) with COPD in the 3-year survival trial. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this trial because of the large number of dropouts (greater than 50%) before the end of the follow-up and the maldistribution of covariates among the treatment groups that can affect BMD. Fracture risk was estimated for the entire population of subjects with COPD in the survival trial (N = 6,184). The probability of a fracture over 3 years was 6.3% for ADVAIR DISKUS, 5.4% for fluticasone propionate, 5.1% for salmeterol, and 5.1% for placebo. 5.14 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR DISKUS, titrate each patient’s dosage to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.15 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with asthma and COPD following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on development of cataracts or glaucoma was evaluated in a subset of 658 subjects with COPD in the 3-year survival trial. Ophthalmic examinations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions about cataracts cannot be drawn from this trial because the high incidence of cataracts at baseline (61% to 71%) resulted in an inadequate number of subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 who were eligible and available for evaluation of cataracts at the end of the trial (n = 53). The incidence of newly diagnosed glaucoma was 2% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 5% with fluticasone propionate, 0% with salmeterol, and 2% with placebo. 5.16 Eosinophilic Conditions and Churg-Strauss Syndrome In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established. 5.17 Coexisting Conditions ADVAIR DISKUS, like all medicines containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. 5.18 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta-adrenergic agonist medicines may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical trials with ADVAIR DISKUS at recommended doses."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=19
Page 19 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE FUROATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Arnuity Ellipta"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole): Use with caution. May cause systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone furoate is a substrate of CYP3A4. Concomitant administration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole increases the systemic exposure to fluticasone furoate. Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of ARNUITY ELLIPTA with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, clarithromycin, conivaptan, indinavir, itraconazole, lopinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, troleandomycin, voriconazole) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Reduction in BMD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] •Growth effects in pediatrics [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] •Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] Most common adverse reactions (reported in greater than or equal to 5% of subjects) are: •upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, headache, and bronchitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety of ARNUITY ELLIPTA was evaluated in 10 double-blind, parallel-group, controlled trials (7 with placebo) of 8 to 76 weeks’ duration, which enrolled 6,219 subjects with asthma. Doses of fluticasone furoate studied ranged from 25 to 800 mcg. ARNUITY ELLIPTA 100 mcg was studied in 1,663 subjects, and ARNUITY ELLIPTA 200 mcg was studied in 608 subjects. Subject ages ranged from 12 to 84 years, 65% were female, and 75% were Caucasian. In these trials, the proportion of subjects who discontinued study treatment early due to adverse reactions was 2% for subjects treated with both ARNUITY ELLIPTA 100 mcg and ARNUITY ELLIPTA 200 mcg and less than or equal to 1% for placebo-treated subjects. Serious adverse events, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that occurred in more than 1 subject and in a greater percentage of subjects treated with ARNUITY ELLIPTA than placebo included hypertension, abscess, breast cancer, traumatic limb amputation, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and intervertebral disc protrusion; all events occurred at rates less than or equal to 1%. The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ARNUITY ELLIPTA 100 mcg is shown in Table 1 and is based on one 24-week trial (Trial 1) in adolescent and adult subjects with asthma. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with ARNUITY ELLIPTA 100 mcg with Greater than or Equal to 3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo (Trial 1, Intent-to-Treat Population) Adverse Reaction ARNUITY ELLIPTA 100 mcg n = 114 % Placebo n = 115 % Nasopharyngitis 8 5 Bronchitis 7 6 Upper respiratory tract infection 6 5 Headache 6 4 Pharyngitis 4 3 Sinusitis 4 <1 Toothache 3 <1 Gastroenteritis viral 3 0 Oral candidiasis 3 0 Oropharyngeal candidiasis 3 0 Oropharyngeal pain 3 0 The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ARNUITY ELLIPTA 200 mcg is shown in Table 2 and is based on one 24-week trial (Trial 3) in adolescent and adult subjects with asthma. This trial did not have a placebo arm. Table 2. Adverse Reactions with ARNUITY ELLIPTA 200 mcg with Greater than or Equal to 3% Incidence (Trial 3, Safety Population) Adverse Reaction ARNUITY ELLIPTA 200 mcg n = 119 % ARNUITY ELLIPTA 100 mcg n = 119 % Nasopharyngitis 13 12 Headache 13 10 Bronchitis 7 12 Influenza 7 4 Upper respiratory tract infection 6 2 Sinusitis 4 7 Oropharyngeal pain 4 3 Pharyngitis 3 6 Back pain 3 3 Dysphonia 3 2 Oral candidiasis 3 <1 Procedural pain 3 <1 Rhinitis 3 <1 Throat irritation 3 <1 Abdominal pain 3 0 Cough 3 0 Adverse reactions observed in the other trials were consistent with those described in Tables 1 and 2. Long-Term Safety: Long-term safety data are based on 2 trials in adolescent and adult subjects with asthma. In one 52-week trial, subjects received fluticasone furoate 100 mcg (n = 201) or fluticasone furoate 200 mcg (n = 202) in combination with a LABA. Subjects had a mean age of 39 years (adolescents made up 16% of the population), 63% were female, and 67% were Caucasian. In addition to the events shown in Table 1 and Table 2, adverse events occurring in greater than or equal to 3% of the subjects treated with fluticasone furoate 100 mcg or fluticasone furoate 200 mcg, in combination with a LABA, included pyrexia, extrasystoles, upper abdominal pain, respiratory tract infection, diarrhea, and allergic rhinitis. In a second 24- to 76-week trial, subjects received fluticasone furoate 100 mcg (n = 1,010). Subjects participating in this trial had a history of one or more asthma exacerbations that required treatment with oral/systemic corticosteroids or emergency department visit or in-patient hospitalization for the treatment of asthma within the previous 12 months. Subjects had a mean age of 42 years (adolescents made up 14% of the population), 67% were female, and 73% were Caucasian. In addition to the events shown in Table 1 and Table 2, adverse events occurring in greater than or equal to 3% of subjects treated with fluticasone furoate 100 mcg for up to 76 weeks included allergic rhinitis, nasal congestion, and arthralgia."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and throat may occur. Monitor patients periodically. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing after inhalation. (5.1) •Deterioration of asthma and acute episodes: Do not use for relief of acute symptoms. Patients require immediate re-evaluation during rapidly deteriorating asthma. (5.2) •Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis, fungal, bacterial, viral, parasitic infections or ocular herpes simplex. Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.3) •Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from systemic corticosteroids. Wean patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ARNUITY ELLIPTA. (5.4) •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ARNUITY ELLIPTA slowly. (5.5) •Paradoxical bronchospasm: Discontinue ARNUITY ELLIPTA and institute alternative therapy if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs. (5.7) •Decreases in bone mineral density: Monitor patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content. (5.9) •Monitor growth of adolescent patients. (5.10) •Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.11) 5.1 Local Effects of Inhaled Corticosteroids In clinical trials, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in subjects treated with ARNUITY ELLIPTA. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral) antifungal therapy while treatment with ARNUITY ELLIPTA continues, but at times therapy with ARNUITY ELLIPTA may need to be interrupted. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing following inhalation to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. 5.2 Acute Asthma Episodes ARNUITY ELLIPTA is not indicated for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist, not ARNUITY ELLIPTA, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ARNUITY ELLIPTA, the physician must provide the patient with an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular once-daily use of ARNUITY ELLIPTA. Instruct patients to contact their physicians immediately if episodes of asthma not responsive to bronchodilators occur during the course of treatment with ARNUITY ELLIPTA. During such episodes, patients may require therapy with oral corticosteroids. 5.3 Immunosuppression Persons using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such patients who have not had these diseases or who have not been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) or pooled intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.4 Transferring Patients from Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who are transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ARNUITY ELLIPTA may improve control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of corticosteroid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a medical identification warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring systemic corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ARNUITY ELLIPTA. Lung function (forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [AM PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of systemic corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to ARNUITY ELLIPTA may unmask allergic conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). During withdrawal from oral corticosteroids, some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression), despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression ARNUITY ELLIPTA will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since ARNUITY ELLIPTA is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ARNUITY ELLIPTA in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. Because of the possibility of significant systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with ARNUITY ELLIPTA should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when fluticasone furoate is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of ARNUITY ELLIPTA should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma symptoms. 5.6 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of ARNUITY ELLIPTA with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, clarithromycin, conivaptan, indinavir, itraconazole, lopinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, troleandomycin, voriconazole) because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.7 Paradoxical Bronchospasm and Upper Airway Symptoms As with other inhaled medicines, bronchospasm may occur with an immediate increase in wheezing after dosing. If bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ARNUITY ELLIPTA, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; ARNUITY ELLIPTA should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. 5.8 Hypersensitivity Reactions, Including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions such as urticaria, flushing, allergic dermatitis, and bronchospasm may occur after administration of ARNUITY ELLIPTA. Discontinue ARNUITY ELLIPTA if such reactions occur. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy after inhalation of other powder products containing lactose; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not use ARNUITY ELLIPTA [see Contraindications (4.2)]. 5.9 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term outcomes, such as fracture, is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids), should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. 5.10 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ARNUITY ELLIPTA, may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to children and adolescents. Monitor the growth of children and adolescents receiving ARNUITY ELLIPTA routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ARNUITY ELLIPTA, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.11 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients following the long‑term administration of inhaled corticosteroids. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=20
Page 20 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL"
        "brand_name": [
          "ADVAIRDISKUS DISKUS"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta2-agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD, without adverse drug reactions. No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with ADVAIR DISKUS. Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and reduced plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction study in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and Cmax increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with reversible obstructive airways disease. Therefore, patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Pneumonia in patients with COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] •Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older: The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR DISKUS in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled, 12-week, US clinical studies (Studies 1 and 2). A total of 705 adult and adolescent patients (349 females and 356 males) previously treated with salmeterol or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS (100/50- or 250/50-mcg doses), fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100- or 250-mcg doses), salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. The average duration of exposure was 60 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 42 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (N = 92) % ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 84) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (N = 90) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 84) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 180) % Placebo (N = 175) % Ear, nose, & throat Upper respiratory tract infection 27 21 29 25 19 14 Pharyngitis 13 10 7 12 8 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 7 6 7 8 8 5 Sinusitis 4 5 6 1 3 4 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 2 2 4 <1 <1 Oral candidiasis 1 4 2 2 0 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 4 4 4 10 6 3 Bronchitis 2 8 1 2 2 2 Cough 3 6 0 0 3 2 Neurology Headaches 12 13 14 8 10 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea & vomiting 4 6 3 4 1 1 Gastrointestinal discomfort & pain 4 1 0 2 1 1 Diarrhea 4 2 2 2 1 1 Viral gastrointestinal infections 3 0 3 1 2 2 Non-site specific Candidiasis unspecified site 3 0 1 4 0 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 4 2 1 5 3 3 The types of adverse reactions and events reported in Study 3, a 28-week, non-US clinical study of 503 patients previously treated with inhaled corticosteroids who were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg used concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, were similar to those reported in Table 2. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: lymphatic signs and symptoms; muscle injuries; fractures; wounds and lacerations; contusions and hematomas; ear signs and symptoms; nasal signs and symptoms; nasal sinus disorders; keratitis and conjunctivitis; dental discomfort and pain; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; oral discomfort and pain; lower respiratory signs and symptoms; pneumonia; muscle stiffness, tightness, and rigidity; bone and cartilage disorders; sleep disorders; compressed nerve syndromes; viral infections; pain; chest symptoms; fluid retention; bacterial infections; unusual taste; viral skin infections; skin flakiness and acquired ichthyosis; disorders of sweat and sebum. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: The safety data for pediatric patients aged 4 to 11 years is based upon 1 US trial of 12 weeks’ treatment duration. A total of 203 patients (74 females and 129 males) who were receiving inhaled corticosteroids at study entry were randomized to either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily. Common adverse reactions (≥3% and greater than placebo) seen in the pediatric patients but not reported in the adult and adolescent clinical trials include: throat irritation and ear, nose, and throat infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities: Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in ≥1% of patients in clinical trials. The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the studies. In addition, there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium. Short-Term (6 Months to 1 Year) Trials: The short-term safety data are based on exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily in one 6-month and two 1-year clinical trials. In the 6-month trial, a total of 723 adult patients (266 females and 457 males) were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder, or placebo. The mean age of the patients was 64, and the majority (93%) was Caucasian. In this trial, 70% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS reported an adverse reaction compared with 64% on placebo. The average duration of exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was 141.3 days compared with 131.6 days for placebo. The incidence of adverse reactions in the 6-month study is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Overall Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Associated With Chronic Bronchitis Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 178) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 183) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 177) % Placebo (N = 185) % Ear, nose, & throat Candidiasis mouth/throat 10 6 3 1 Throat irritation 8 5 4 7 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 3 <1 0 Sinusitis 3 8 5 3 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 6 4 3 3 Neurology Headaches 16 11 10 12 Dizziness 4 <1 3 2 Non-site specific Fever 4 3 0 3 Malaise & fatigue 3 2 2 3 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 9 8 12 9 Muscle cramps & spasms 3 3 1 1 In the two 1-year studies, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was compared with salmeterol in 1,579 patients (863 males and 716 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (94%) was Caucasian. To be enrolled, all of the patients had to have had a COPD exacerbation in the previous 12 months. In this trial, 88% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 86% of the patients treated with salmeterol reported an adverse event. The most common events that occurred with a frequency of >5% and more frequently in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, back pain, sinusitis, dizziness, nausea, pneumonia, candidiasis, and dysphonia. Overall, 55 (7%) of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 25 (3%) of the patients treated with salmeterol developed pneumonia. The incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age, 9% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with 4% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS less than 65 years of age. In the patients treated with salmeterol, the incidence of pneumonia was the same (3%) in both age-groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Long-Term (3-Year) Trial: The safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international, 3-year study in 6,184 adult patients with COPD (4,684 males and 1,500 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (82%) was Caucasian. The distribution of adverse events was similar to that seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. In addition, pneumonia was reported in a significantly increased number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg (16% and 14%, respectively) compared with patients treated with salmeterol 50 mcg or placebo (11% and 9%, respectively). When adjusted for time on treatment, the rates of pneumonia were 84 and 88 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the groups treated with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg and with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, compared with 52 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the salmeterol and placebo groups. Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with COPD treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: syncope; ear, nose, and throat infections; ear signs and symptoms; laryngitis; nasal congestion/blockage; nasal sinus disorders; pharyngitis/throat infection; hypothyroidism; dry eyes; eye infections; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral lesions; abnormal liver function tests; bacterial infections; edema and swelling; viral infections. Laboratory Abnormalities: There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials. Specifically, no increased reporting of neutrophilia or changes in glucose or potassium was noted. In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during worldwide use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR DISKUS, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders: Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), ventricular tachycardia. Endocrine Disorders: Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism. Eye Disorders: Glaucoma. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, xerostomia. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reaction (including very rare anaphylactic reaction). Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy. Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperglycemia, weight gain. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders: Arthralgia, cramps, myositis, osteoporosis. Nervous System Disorders: Paresthesia, restlessness. Psychiatric Disorders: Agitation, aggression, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Dysmenorrhea. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Chest congestion; chest tightness; dyspnea; facial and oropharyngeal edema, immediate bronchospasm; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Ecchymoses, photodermatitis. Vascular Disorders: Pallor."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Asthma-related death: LABAs increase the risk. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. (5.1)•Deterioration of disease and acute episodes: Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or to treat acute symptoms. (5.2)•Use with additional LABA: Do not use in combination because of risk of overdose. (5.3)•Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and throat may occur. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse the mouth following inhalation. (5.4)•Pneumonia: Increased risk in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. (5.5)•Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis, fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.6)•Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.7)•Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS slowly. (5.8)•Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Risk of increased systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. Use not recommended with ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.9)•Paradoxical bronchospasm: Discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS and institute alternative therapy if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs. (5.10)•Patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders: Use with caution because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. (5.12)•Decreases in bone mineral density: Assess bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.13)•Effects on growth: Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.14)•Glaucoma and cataracts: Close monitoring is warranted. (5.15)•Metabolic effects: Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. (5.16, 5.18)•Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.17) LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABAs. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABAs increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe ADVAIR DISKUS for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use ADVAIR DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol. The Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) was a randomized double-blind study that enrolled LABA-naive patients with asthma to assess the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT® Inhalation Aerosol) 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy. A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of patients had been enrolled (N = 26,355), which led to premature termination of the study. The results of the interim analysis showed that patients receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events (see Table 1 and Figure 1). In the total population, a higher rate of asthma-related death occurred in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.10% versus 0.02%, relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Post-hoc subpopulation analyses were performed. In Caucasians, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than in patients treated with placebo (0.07% versus 0.01%, relative risk: 5.82 [95% CI: 0.70, 48.37]). In African Americans also, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.31% versus 0.04%, relative risk: 7.26 [95% CI: 0.89, 58.94]). Although the relative risks of asthma-related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans, the estimate of excess deaths in patients treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma-related death in African American patients (see Table 1). Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta2-agonists, the findings seen in the SMART study are considered a class effect. Post-hoc analyses in pediatric patients aged 12 to 18 years were also performed. Pediatric patients accounted for approximately 12% of patients in each treatment arm. Respiratory-related death or life-threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group (0.12% [2/1,653]) and the placebo group (0.12% [2/1,622]; relative risk: 1.0 [95% CI: 0.1, 7.2]). All-cause hospitalization, however, was increased in the salmeterol group (2% [35/1,653]) versus the placebo group (<1% [16/1,622]; relative risk: 2.1 [95% CI: 1.1, 3.7]). The data from the SMART study are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other active ingredient in ADVAIR DISKUS, or other long-term asthma control therapy mitigates the risk of asthma-related death. Table 1. Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) Salmeterol n (%a) Placebo n (%a) Relative Riskb (95% Confidence Interval) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10,000 Patientsc (95% Confidence Interval) Total Populationd Salmeterol: N = 13,176 13 (0.10%) 4.37 (1.25, 15.34) 8 (3, 13) Placebo: N = 13,179 3 (0.02%) Caucasian Salmeterol: N = 9,281 6 (0.07%) 5.82 (0.70, 48.37) 6 (1, 10) Placebo: N = 9,361 1 (0.01%) African American Salmeterol: N = 2,366 7 (0.31%) 7.26 (0.89, 58.94) 27 (8, 46) Placebo: N = 2,319 1 (0.04%) aLife-table 28-week estimate, adjusted according to the patients’ actual lengths of exposure to study treatment to account for early withdrawal of patients from the study. bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma-related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group. The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma-related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28-week treatment period. cEstimate of the number of additional asthma-related deaths in patients treated with salmeterol in SMART, assuming 10,000 patients received salmeterol for a 28-week treatment period. Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma-related death multiplied by 10,000. dThe Total Population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form: Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and “Other.” In addition, the Total Population includes those patients whose ethnic origin was not reported. The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above. No asthma-related deaths occurred in the Hispanic (salmeterol n = 996, placebo n = 999), Asian (salmeterol n = 173, placebo n = 149), or “Other” (salmeterol n = 230, placebo n = 224) subpopulations. One asthma-related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported (salmeterol n = 130, placebo n = 127). Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment A 16-week clinical study performed in the United Kingdom, the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance (SNS) study, showed results similar to the SMART study. In the SNS study, the rate of asthma-related death was numerically, though not statistically significantly, greater in patients with asthma treated with salmeterol (42 mcg twice daily) than those treated with albuterol (180 mcg 4 times daily) added to usual asthma therapy. The SNS and SMART studies enrolled patients with asthma. No studies have been conducted that were primarily designed to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABAs. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma or COPD. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. The initiation of ADVAIR DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily (morning and evening) of ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist, not ADVAIR DISKUS, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS, the physician must also provide the patient with an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular twice-daily (morning and evening) use of ADVAIR DISKUS. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. As with other inhaled drugs containing beta2-adrenergic agents, ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medications containing LABAs, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use an additional LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate) for any reason, including prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm (EIB) or the treatment of asthma or COPD. In clinical studies, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral antifungal) therapy while treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS. Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of pneumonia and exacerbations frequently overlap. Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with COPD following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS. In 2 replicate 12-month studies of 1,579 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in patients over 65 years of age (9%) compared with the incidence in patients less than 65 years of age (4%). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] In a 3-year study of 6,184 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ADVAIR DISKUS may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to inhaled corticosteroids or ADVAIR DISKUS may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). Some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. Fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ADVAIR DISKUS in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS. Because of the possibility of systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when fluticasone propionate is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of ADVAIR DISKUS should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma symptoms. The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. As with other inhaled medications, ADVAIR DISKUS can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ADVAIR DISKUS, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; ADVAIR DISKUS should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling, such as stridor and choking, have been reported in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and salmeterol. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ADVAIR DISKUS, as demonstrated by cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, and bronchospasm. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not take ADVAIR DISKUS [see Contraindications (4)]. Excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, and insomnia [see Overdosage (10)]. Therefore, ADVAIR DISKUS, like all products containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram (ECG) changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol (12 to 20 times the recommended dose) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, post-menopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating ADVAIR DISKUS and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and ADVAIR DISKUS is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medication to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. 2-Year Fluticasone Propionate Study: A 2-year study of 160 patients (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving CFC-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 3-Year Bone Mineral Density Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 or salmeterol 50 mcg on BMD at the L1-L4 lumbar spine and total hip were evaluated in 186 patients with COPD (aged 43 to 87 years) in a 3-year double-blind study. Of those enrolled, 108 patients (72 males and 36 females) were followed for the entire 3 years. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 6-month intervals. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study regarding BMD decline in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS versus salmeterol due to the inconsistency of treatment differences across gender and between lumbar spine and total hip. In this study there were 7 non-traumatic fractures reported in 5 patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 1 non-traumatic fracture in 1 patient treated with salmeterol. None of the non-traumatic fractures occurred in the vertebrae, hip, or long bones. 3-Year Survival Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on BMD was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients (females and males aged 40 to 80 years) with COPD in the 3-year survival study. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study because of the large number of drop outs (>50%) before the end of the follow-up and the maldistribution of covariates among the treatment groups that can affect BMD. Fracture risk was estimated for the entire population of patients with COPD in the survival study (N = 6,184). The probability of a fracture over 3 years was 6.3% for ADVAIR DISKUS, 5.4% for fluticasone propionate, 5.1% for salmeterol, and 5.1% for placebo. Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR DISKUS, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4).] Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with asthma and COPD following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on development of cataracts or glaucoma was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients with COPD in the 3-year survival study. Ophthalmic examinations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions about cataracts cannot be drawn from this study because the high incidence of cataracts at baseline (61% to 71%) resulted in an inadequate number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 who were eligible and available for evaluation of cataracts at the end of the study (n = 53). The incidence of newly diagnosed glaucoma was 2% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 5% with fluticasone propionate, 0% with salmeterol, and 2% with placebo. In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established. ADVAIR DISKUS, like all medications containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. Beta-adrenergic agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical studies with ADVAIR DISKUS at recommended doses. MM1"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=21
Page 21 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE FUROATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "VERAMYST"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "DRUG INTERACTIONS Fluticasone furoate is cleared by extensive first-pass metabolism mediated by CYP3A4. In a drug interaction trial of intranasal fluticasone furoate and the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole given as a 200-mg once-daily dose for 7 days, 6 of 20 subjects receiving fluticasone furoate and ketoconazole had measurable but low levels of fluticasone furoate compared with 1 of 20 receiving fluticasone furoate and placebo. Based on this trial and the low systemic exposure, there was a 5% reduction in 24-hour serum cortisol levels with ketoconazole compared with placebo. The data from this trial should be carefully interpreted because the trial was conducted with ketoconazole 200 mg once daily rather than 400 mg, which is the maximum recommended dosage. Therefore, caution is required with the coadministration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray and ketoconazole or other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors. Based on data with another glucocorticoid, fluticasone propionate, metabolized by CYP3A4, coadministration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray with the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ritonavir is not recommended because of the risk of systemic effects secondary to increased exposure to fluticasone furoate. High exposure to corticosteroids increases the potential for systemic side effects, such as cortisol suppression. Enzyme induction and inhibition data suggest that fluticasone furoate is unlikely to significantly alter the cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism of other compounds at clinically relevant intranasal dosages."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: •Epistaxis, ulcerations, Candida albicans infection, impaired wound healing, and nasal septal perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis effects, including growth reduction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] The safety data described below reflect exposure to VERAMYST Nasal Spray in 1,563 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis in 9 controlled clinical trials of 2 to 12 weeks’ duration. The data from adults and adolescents are based upon 6 clinical trials in which 768 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis (473 females and 295 males aged 12 years and older) were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily for 2 to 6 weeks. The racial distribution of adult and adolescent patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was 82% white, 5% black, and 13% other. The data from pediatric patients are based upon 3 clinical trials in which 795 children with seasonal or perennial rhinitis (352 females and 443 males aged 2 to 11 years) were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 55 or 110 mcg once daily for 2 to 12 weeks. The racial distribution of pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was 75% white, 11% black, and 14% other. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults and Adolescents Aged 12 Years and Older Overall adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray and those receiving placebo. Less than 3% of patients in clinical trials discontinued treatment because of adverse reactions. The rate of withdrawal among patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was similar or lower than the rate among patients receiving placebo. Table 1 displays the common adverse reactions (>1% in any patient group receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray) that occurred more frequently in patients aged 12 years and older treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with >1% Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials of 2 to 6 Weeks’ Duration with VERAMYST Nasal Spray in Adult and Adolescent Patients with Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Event Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older Vehicle Placebo (n = 774) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg Once Daily (n = 768) Headache 54 (7%) 72 (9%) Epistaxis 32 (4%) 45 (6%) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 8 (1%) 15 (2%) Nasal ulceration 3 (<1%) 11 (1%) Back pain 7 (<1%) 9 (1%) There were no differences in the incidence of adverse reactions based on gender or race. Clinical trials did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Pediatric Patients Aged 2 to 11 Years In the 3 clinical trials in pediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years, overall adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray and those receiving placebo. Table 2 displays the common adverse reactions (>3% in any patient group receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray), that occurred more frequently in patients aged 2 to 11 years treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 2. Adverse Reactions with >3% Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials of 2 to 12 Weeks’ Duration with VERAMYST Nasal Spray in Pediatric Patients with Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Event Pediatric Patients Aged 2 to <12 Years Vehicle Placebo (n = 429) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 55 mcg Once Daily (n = 369) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg Once Daily (n = 426) Headache 31 (7%) 28 (8%) 33 (8%) Nasopharyngitis 21 (5%) 20 (5%) 21 (5%) Epistaxis 19 (4%) 17 (5%) 17 (4%) Pyrexia 7 (2%) 17 (5%) 19 (4%) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 14 (3%) 16 (4%) 12 (3%) Cough 12 (3%) 12 (3%) 16 (4%) There were no differences in the incidence of adverse reactions based on gender or race. Pyrexia occurred more frequently in children aged 2 to <6 years compared with children aged 6 to <12 years. Long-term (52-Week) Safety Trial In a 52-week, placebo-controlled, long-term safety trial, 605 patients (307 females and 298 males aged 12 years and older) with perennial allergic rhinitis were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily for 12 months and 201 were treated with placebo nasal spray. While most adverse reactions were similar in type and rate between the treatment groups, epistaxis occurred more frequently in patients who received VERAMYST Nasal Spray (123/605, 20%) than in patients who received placebo (17/201, 8%). Epistaxis tended to be more severe in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray. All 17 reports of epistaxis that occurred in patients who received placebo were of mild intensity, while 83, 39, and 1 of the total 123 epistaxis events in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray were of mild, moderate, and severe intensity, respectively. No patient experienced a nasal septal perforation during this trial. In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone furoate or a combination of these factors. Immune System Disorders Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Rhinalgia, nasal discomfort (including nasal burning, nasal irritation, and nasal soreness), nasal dryness, and nasal septal perforation."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. ( 5.1 )•Development of glaucoma or posterior subcapsular cataracts. Monitor patients closely with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. ( 5.2 )•Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria, may occur after administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. ( 5.3 )•Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patients with the above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. ( 5.4 )•Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue VERAMYST Nasal Spray slowly. ( 5.5 )•Potential reduction in growth velocity in children. Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray. ( 5.7 , 8.4 ) Epistaxis and Nasal Ulceration In clinical trials of 2 to 52 weeks’ duration, epistaxis and nasal ulcerations were observed more frequently and some epistaxis events were more severe in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Candida Infection Evidence of localized infections of the nose with Candida albicans was seen on nasal exams in 7 of 2,745 patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray during clinical trials and was reported as an adverse event in 3 patients. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Therefore, patients using VERAMYST Nasal Spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients following the intranasal application of VERAMYST Nasal Spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should not use VERAMYST Nasal Spray until healing has occurred. Nasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure (IOP), glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Glaucoma and cataract formation was evaluated with intraocular pressure measurements and slit lamp examinations in 1 controlled 12-month trial in 806 adolescent and adult patients aged 12 years and older and in 1 controlled 12-week trial in 558 children aged 2 to 11 years. The patients had perennial allergic rhinitis and were treated with either VERAMYST Nasal Spray (110 mcg once daily in adult and adolescent patients and 55 or 110 mcg once daily in pediatric patients) or placebo. Intraocular pressure remained within the normal range (<21 mmHg) in ≥98% of the patients in any treatment group in both trials. However, in the 12-month trial in adolescents and adults, 12 patients, all treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily, had intraocular pressure measurements that increased above normal levels (≥21 mmHg). In the same trial, 7 patients (6 treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily and 1 patient treated with placebo) had cataracts identified during the trial that were not present at baseline. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria, may occur after administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Discontinue VERAMYST Nasal Spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)]. Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases or have not been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox or measles develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract, untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections, systemic viral or parasitic infections, or ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for worsening of these infections. Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal steroids are used at higher-than-recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of VERAMYST Nasal Spray should be discontinued slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression. Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. Coadministration with ritonavir is not recommended because of the risk of systemic effects secondary to increased exposure to fluticasone furoate. Use caution with the coadministration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray and other potent cytochrome P450 3A4(CYP3A4) inhibitors, such as ketoconazole [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including VERAMYST Nasal Spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=22
Page 22 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL"
        "brand_name": [
          "ADVAIRDISKUS DISKUS"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta2-agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD, without adverse drug reactions. No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with ADVAIR DISKUS. Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and reduced plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction study in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and Cmax increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with reversible obstructive airways disease. Therefore, patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Pneumonia in patients with COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] •Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older: The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR DISKUS in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled, 12-week, US clinical studies (Studies 1 and 2). A total of 705 adult and adolescent patients (349 females and 356 males) previously treated with salmeterol or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS (100/50- or 250/50-mcg doses), fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100- or 250-mcg doses), salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. The average duration of exposure was 60 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 42 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (N = 92) % ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 84) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (N = 90) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 84) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 180) % Placebo (N = 175) % Ear, nose, & throat Upper respiratory tract infection 27 21 29 25 19 14 Pharyngitis 13 10 7 12 8 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 7 6 7 8 8 5 Sinusitis 4 5 6 1 3 4 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 2 2 4 <1 <1 Oral candidiasis 1 4 2 2 0 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 4 4 4 10 6 3 Bronchitis 2 8 1 2 2 2 Cough 3 6 0 0 3 2 Neurology Headaches 12 13 14 8 10 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea & vomiting 4 6 3 4 1 1 Gastrointestinal discomfort & pain 4 1 0 2 1 1 Diarrhea 4 2 2 2 1 1 Viral gastrointestinal infections 3 0 3 1 2 2 Non-site specific Candidiasis unspecified site 3 0 1 4 0 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 4 2 1 5 3 3 The types of adverse reactions and events reported in Study 3, a 28-week, non-US clinical study of 503 patients previously treated with inhaled corticosteroids who were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg used concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, were similar to those reported in Table 2. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: lymphatic signs and symptoms; muscle injuries; fractures; wounds and lacerations; contusions and hematomas; ear signs and symptoms; nasal signs and symptoms; nasal sinus disorders; keratitis and conjunctivitis; dental discomfort and pain; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; oral discomfort and pain; lower respiratory signs and symptoms; pneumonia; muscle stiffness, tightness, and rigidity; bone and cartilage disorders; sleep disorders; compressed nerve syndromes; viral infections; pain; chest symptoms; fluid retention; bacterial infections; unusual taste; viral skin infections; skin flakiness and acquired ichthyosis; disorders of sweat and sebum. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: The safety data for pediatric patients aged 4 to 11 years is based upon 1 US trial of 12 weeks’ treatment duration. A total of 203 patients (74 females and 129 males) who were receiving inhaled corticosteroids at study entry were randomized to either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily. Common adverse reactions (≥3% and greater than placebo) seen in the pediatric patients but not reported in the adult and adolescent clinical trials include: throat irritation and ear, nose, and throat infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities: Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in ≥1% of patients in clinical trials. The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the studies. In addition, there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium. Short-Term (6 Months to 1 Year) Trials: The short-term safety data are based on exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily in one 6-month and two 1-year clinical trials. In the 6-month trial, a total of 723 adult patients (266 females and 457 males) were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder, or placebo. The mean age of the patients was 64, and the majority (93%) was Caucasian. In this trial, 70% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS reported an adverse reaction compared with 64% on placebo. The average duration of exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was 141.3 days compared with 131.6 days for placebo. The incidence of adverse reactions in the 6-month study is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Overall Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Associated With Chronic Bronchitis Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 178) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 183) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 177) % Placebo (N = 185) % Ear, nose, & throat Candidiasis mouth/throat 10 6 3 1 Throat irritation 8 5 4 7 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 3 <1 0 Sinusitis 3 8 5 3 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 6 4 3 3 Neurology Headaches 16 11 10 12 Dizziness 4 <1 3 2 Non-site specific Fever 4 3 0 3 Malaise & fatigue 3 2 2 3 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 9 8 12 9 Muscle cramps & spasms 3 3 1 1 In the two 1-year studies, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was compared with salmeterol in 1,579 patients (863 males and 716 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (94%) was Caucasian. To be enrolled, all of the patients had to have had a COPD exacerbation in the previous 12 months. In this trial, 88% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 86% of the patients treated with salmeterol reported an adverse event. The most common events that occurred with a frequency of >5% and more frequently in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, back pain, sinusitis, dizziness, nausea, pneumonia, candidiasis, and dysphonia. Overall, 55 (7%) of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 25 (3%) of the patients treated with salmeterol developed pneumonia. The incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age, 9% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with 4% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS less than 65 years of age. In the patients treated with salmeterol, the incidence of pneumonia was the same (3%) in both age-groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Long-Term (3-Year) Trial: The safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international, 3-year study in 6,184 adult patients with COPD (4,684 males and 1,500 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (82%) was Caucasian. The distribution of adverse events was similar to that seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. In addition, pneumonia was reported in a significantly increased number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg (16% and 14%, respectively) compared with patients treated with salmeterol 50 mcg or placebo (11% and 9%, respectively). When adjusted for time on treatment, the rates of pneumonia were 84 and 88 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the groups treated with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg and with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, compared with 52 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the salmeterol and placebo groups. Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with COPD treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: syncope; ear, nose, and throat infections; ear signs and symptoms; laryngitis; nasal congestion/blockage; nasal sinus disorders; pharyngitis/throat infection; hypothyroidism; dry eyes; eye infections; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral lesions; abnormal liver function tests; bacterial infections; edema and swelling; viral infections. Laboratory Abnormalities: There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials. Specifically, no increased reporting of neutrophilia or changes in glucose or potassium was noted. In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during worldwide use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR DISKUS, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders: Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), ventricular tachycardia. Endocrine Disorders: Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism. Eye Disorders: Glaucoma. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, xerostomia. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reaction (including very rare anaphylactic reaction). Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy. Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperglycemia, weight gain. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders: Arthralgia, cramps, myositis, osteoporosis. Nervous System Disorders: Paresthesia, restlessness. Psychiatric Disorders: Agitation, aggression, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Dysmenorrhea. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Chest congestion; chest tightness; dyspnea; facial and oropharyngeal edema, immediate bronchospasm; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Ecchymoses, photodermatitis. Vascular Disorders: Pallor."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Asthma-related death: LABAs increase the risk. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. (5.1)•Deterioration of disease and acute episodes: Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or to treat acute symptoms. (5.2)•Use with additional LABA: Do not use in combination because of risk of overdose. (5.3)•Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and throat may occur. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse the mouth following inhalation. (5.4)•Pneumonia: Increased risk in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. (5.5)•Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis, fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.6)•Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.7)•Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS slowly. (5.8)•Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Risk of increased systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. Use not recommended with ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.9)•Paradoxical bronchospasm: Discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS and institute alternative therapy if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs. (5.10)•Patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders: Use with caution because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. (5.12)•Decreases in bone mineral density: Assess bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.13)•Effects on growth: Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.14)•Glaucoma and cataracts: Close monitoring is warranted. (5.15)•Metabolic effects: Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. (5.16, 5.18)•Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.17) LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABAs. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABAs increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe ADVAIR DISKUS for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use ADVAIR DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol. The Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) was a randomized double-blind study that enrolled LABA-naive patients with asthma to assess the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT® Inhalation Aerosol) 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy. A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of patients had been enrolled (N = 26,355), which led to premature termination of the study. The results of the interim analysis showed that patients receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events (see Table 1 and Figure 1). In the total population, a higher rate of asthma-related death occurred in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.10% versus 0.02%, relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Post-hoc subpopulation analyses were performed. In Caucasians, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than in patients treated with placebo (0.07% versus 0.01%, relative risk: 5.82 [95% CI: 0.70, 48.37]). In African Americans also, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.31% versus 0.04%, relative risk: 7.26 [95% CI: 0.89, 58.94]). Although the relative risks of asthma-related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans, the estimate of excess deaths in patients treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma-related death in African American patients (see Table 1). Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta2-agonists, the findings seen in the SMART study are considered a class effect. Post-hoc analyses in pediatric patients aged 12 to 18 years were also performed. Pediatric patients accounted for approximately 12% of patients in each treatment arm. Respiratory-related death or life-threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group (0.12% [2/1,653]) and the placebo group (0.12% [2/1,622]; relative risk: 1.0 [95% CI: 0.1, 7.2]). All-cause hospitalization, however, was increased in the salmeterol group (2% [35/1,653]) versus the placebo group (<1% [16/1,622]; relative risk: 2.1 [95% CI: 1.1, 3.7]). The data from the SMART study are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other active ingredient in ADVAIR DISKUS, or other long-term asthma control therapy mitigates the risk of asthma-related death. Table 1. Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) Salmeterol n (%a) Placebo n (%a) Relative Riskb (95% Confidence Interval) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10,000 Patientsc (95% Confidence Interval) Total Populationd Salmeterol: N = 13,176 13 (0.10%) 4.37 (1.25, 15.34) 8 (3, 13) Placebo: N = 13,179 3 (0.02%) Caucasian Salmeterol: N = 9,281 6 (0.07%) 5.82 (0.70, 48.37) 6 (1, 10) Placebo: N = 9,361 1 (0.01%) African American Salmeterol: N = 2,366 7 (0.31%) 7.26 (0.89, 58.94) 27 (8, 46) Placebo: N = 2,319 1 (0.04%) aLife-table 28-week estimate, adjusted according to the patients’ actual lengths of exposure to study treatment to account for early withdrawal of patients from the study. bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma-related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group. The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma-related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28-week treatment period. cEstimate of the number of additional asthma-related deaths in patients treated with salmeterol in SMART, assuming 10,000 patients received salmeterol for a 28-week treatment period. Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma-related death multiplied by 10,000. dThe Total Population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form: Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and “Other.” In addition, the Total Population includes those patients whose ethnic origin was not reported. The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above. No asthma-related deaths occurred in the Hispanic (salmeterol n = 996, placebo n = 999), Asian (salmeterol n = 173, placebo n = 149), or “Other” (salmeterol n = 230, placebo n = 224) subpopulations. One asthma-related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported (salmeterol n = 130, placebo n = 127). Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment A 16-week clinical study performed in the United Kingdom, the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance (SNS) study, showed results similar to the SMART study. In the SNS study, the rate of asthma-related death was numerically, though not statistically significantly, greater in patients with asthma treated with salmeterol (42 mcg twice daily) than those treated with albuterol (180 mcg 4 times daily) added to usual asthma therapy. The SNS and SMART studies enrolled patients with asthma. No studies have been conducted that were primarily designed to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABAs. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma or COPD. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. The initiation of ADVAIR DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily (morning and evening) of ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist, not ADVAIR DISKUS, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS, the physician must also provide the patient with an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular twice-daily (morning and evening) use of ADVAIR DISKUS. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. As with other inhaled drugs containing beta2-adrenergic agents, ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medications containing LABAs, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use an additional LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate) for any reason, including prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm (EIB) or the treatment of asthma or COPD. In clinical studies, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral antifungal) therapy while treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS. Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of pneumonia and exacerbations frequently overlap. Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with COPD following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS. In 2 replicate 12-month studies of 1,579 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in patients over 65 years of age (9%) compared with the incidence in patients less than 65 years of age (4%). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] In a 3-year study of 6,184 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ADVAIR DISKUS may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to inhaled corticosteroids or ADVAIR DISKUS may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). Some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. Fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ADVAIR DISKUS in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS. Because of the possibility of systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when fluticasone propionate is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of ADVAIR DISKUS should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma symptoms. The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. As with other inhaled medications, ADVAIR DISKUS can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ADVAIR DISKUS, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; ADVAIR DISKUS should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling, such as stridor and choking, have been reported in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and salmeterol. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ADVAIR DISKUS, as demonstrated by cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, and bronchospasm. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not take ADVAIR DISKUS [see Contraindications (4)]. Excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, and insomnia [see Overdosage (10)]. Therefore, ADVAIR DISKUS, like all products containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram (ECG) changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol (12 to 20 times the recommended dose) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, post-menopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating ADVAIR DISKUS and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and ADVAIR DISKUS is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medication to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. 2-Year Fluticasone Propionate Study: A 2-year study of 160 patients (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving CFC-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 3-Year Bone Mineral Density Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 or salmeterol 50 mcg on BMD at the L1-L4 lumbar spine and total hip were evaluated in 186 patients with COPD (aged 43 to 87 years) in a 3-year double-blind study. Of those enrolled, 108 patients (72 males and 36 females) were followed for the entire 3 years. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 6-month intervals. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study regarding BMD decline in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS versus salmeterol due to the inconsistency of treatment differences across gender and between lumbar spine and total hip. In this study there were 7 non-traumatic fractures reported in 5 patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 1 non-traumatic fracture in 1 patient treated with salmeterol. None of the non-traumatic fractures occurred in the vertebrae, hip, or long bones. 3-Year Survival Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on BMD was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients (females and males aged 40 to 80 years) with COPD in the 3-year survival study. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study because of the large number of drop outs (>50%) before the end of the follow-up and the maldistribution of covariates among the treatment groups that can affect BMD. Fracture risk was estimated for the entire population of patients with COPD in the survival study (N = 6,184). The probability of a fracture over 3 years was 6.3% for ADVAIR DISKUS, 5.4% for fluticasone propionate, 5.1% for salmeterol, and 5.1% for placebo. Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR DISKUS, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4).] Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with asthma and COPD following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on development of cataracts or glaucoma was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients with COPD in the 3-year survival study. Ophthalmic examinations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions about cataracts cannot be drawn from this study because the high incidence of cataracts at baseline (61% to 71%) resulted in an inadequate number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 who were eligible and available for evaluation of cataracts at the end of the study (n = 53). The incidence of newly diagnosed glaucoma was 2% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 5% with fluticasone propionate, 0% with salmeterol, and 2% with placebo. In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established. ADVAIR DISKUS, like all medications containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. Beta-adrenergic agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical studies with ADVAIR DISKUS at recommended doses. MM1"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=23
Page 23 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL"
        "brand_name": [
          "ADVAIRDISKUS DISKUS"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta 2-agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD without adverse drug reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. No formal drug interaction trials have been performed with ADVAIR DISKUS. Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction trial in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and C max increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta 2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma or COPD. Therefore, patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non–potassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of ADVAIR DISKUS with non–potassium‑sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS LABA, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma- related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled US trial that compared the safety of salmeterol or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Pneumonia in patients with COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Reduction in bone mineral density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] •Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] •Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult and Adolescent Subjects Aged 12 Years and Older: The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR DISKUS in Table 2 is based upon two 12‑week, placebo‑controlled, US clinical trials (Trials 1 and 2). A total of 705 adult and adolescent subjects (349 females and 356 males) previously treated with salmeterol or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS (100/50- or 250/50-mcg doses), fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100- or 250-mcg doses), salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. The average duration of exposure was 60 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 42 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With ADVAIR DISKUS With ≥3% Incidence and More Common Than Placebo in Adult and Adolescent Subjects With Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (n = 92) % ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (n = 84) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (n = 90) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (n = 84) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (n = 180) % Placebo (n = 175) % Ear, nose, and throat Upper respiratory tract infection 27 21 29 25 19 14 Pharyngitis 13 10 7 12 8 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 7 6 7 8 8 5 Sinusitis 4 5 6 1 3 4 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 2 2 4 <1 <1 Oral candidiasis 1 4 2 2 0 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 4 4 4 10 6 3 Bronchitis 2 8 1 2 2 2 Cough 3 6 0 0 3 2 Neurology Headaches 12 13 14 8 10 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea and vomiting 4 6 3 4 1 1 Gastrointestinal discomfort and pain 4 1 0 2 1 1 Diarrhea 4 2 2 2 1 1 Viral gastrointestinal infections 3 0 3 1 2 2 Non-site specific Candidiasis unspecified site 3 0 1 4 0 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 4 2 1 5 3 3 The types of adverse reactions and events reported in Trial 3, a 28-week non-US clinical trial in 503 subjects previously treated with inhaled corticosteroids who were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg used concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, were similar to those reported in Table 2. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by subjects with asthma treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with subjects treated with placebo include the following: lymphatic signs and symptoms; muscle injuries; fractures; wounds and lacerations; contusions and hematomas; ear signs and symptoms; nasal signs and symptoms; nasal sinus disorders; keratitis and conjunctivitis; dental discomfort and pain; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; oral discomfort and pain; lower respiratory signs and symptoms; pneumonia; muscle stiffness, tightness, and rigidity; bone and cartilage disorders; sleep disorders; compressed nerve syndromes; viral infections; pain; chest symptoms; fluid retention; bacterial infections; unusual taste; viral skin infections; skin flakiness and acquired ichthyosis; disorders of sweat and sebum. Pediatric Subjects Aged 4 to 11 Years: The safety data for pediatric subjects aged 4 to 11 years is based upon 1 US trial of 12 weeks’ treatment duration. A total of 203 subjects (74 females and 129 males) who were receiving inhaled corticosteroids at trial entry were randomized to either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily. Common adverse reactions (≥3% and greater than placebo) seen in the pediatric subjects but not reported in the adult and adolescent clinical trials include: throat irritation and ear, nose, and throat infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities: Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in ≥1% of subjects in clinical trials. The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the trials. In addition, there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium. Short-Term (6 Months to 1 Year) Trials: The short-term safety data are based on exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily in one 6-month and two 1-year clinical trials. In the 6-month trial, a total of 723 adult subjects (266 females and 457 males) were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder, or placebo. The mean age of the subjects was 64, and the majority (93%) was Caucasian. In this trial, 70% of the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS reported an adverse reaction compared with 64% on placebo. The average duration of exposure to Advair Diskus 250/50 was 141.3 days compared with 131.6 days for placebo. The incidence of adverse reactions in the 6-month trial is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Overall Adverse Reactions With ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 With ≥3% Incidence in Subjects With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Associated With Chronic Bronchitis Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (n = 178) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (n = 183) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (n = 177) % Placebo (n = 185) % Ear, nose, and throat Candidiasis mouth/throat 10 6 3 1 Throat irritation 8 5 4 7 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 3 <1 0 Sinusitis 3 8 5 3 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 6 4 3 3 Neurology Headaches 16 11 10 12 Dizziness 4 <1 3 2 Non-site specific Fever 4 3 0 3 Malaise and fatigue 3 2 2 3 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 9 8 12 9 Muscle cramps and spasms 3 3 1 1 In the two 1-year trials, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was compared with salmeterol in 1,579 subjects (863 males and 716 females). The mean age of the subjects was 65 years, and the majority (94%) was Caucasian. To be enrolled, all of the subjects had to have had a COPD exacerbation in the previous 12 months. In this trial, 88% of the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 86% of the subjects treated with salmeterol reported an adverse event. The most common events that occurred with a frequency of >5% and more frequently in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, back pain, sinusitis, dizziness, nausea, pneumonia, candidiasis, and dysphonia. Overall, 55 (7%) of the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 25 (3%) of the subjects treated with salmeterol developed pneumonia. The incidence of pneumonia was higher in subjects older than 65 years, 9% in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with 4% in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS younger than 65 years. In the subjects treated with salmeterol, the incidence of pneumonia was the same (3%) in both age-groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Long-Term (3 Years) Trial: The safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international, 3-year trial in 6,184 adult subjects with COPD (4,684 males and 1,500 females). The mean age of the subjects was 65 years, and the majority (82%) was Caucasian. The distribution of adverse events was similar to that seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. In addition, pneumonia was reported in a significantly increased number of subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg (16% and 14%, respectively) compared with subjects treated with salmeterol 50 mcg or placebo (11% and 9%, respectively). When adjusted for time on treatment, the rates of pneumonia were 84 and 88 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the groups treated with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg and with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, compared with 52 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the salmeterol and placebo groups. Similar to what was seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in subjects older than 65 years (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with subjects younger than 65 years (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by subjects with COPD treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with subjects treated with placebo include the following: syncope; ear, nose, and throat infections; ear signs and symptoms; laryngitis; nasal congestion/blockage; nasal sinus disorders; pharyngitis/throat infection; hypothyroidism; dry eyes; eye infections; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral lesions; abnormal liver function tests; bacterial infections; edema and swelling; viral infections. Laboratory Abnormalities: There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials. Specifically, no increased reporting of neutrophilia or changes in glucose or potassium was noted. In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR DISKUS, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders: Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), ventricular tachycardia. Endocrine Disorders: Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism. Eye Disorders: Glaucoma. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, xerostomia. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reaction (including very rare anaphylactic reaction). Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy. Infections and Infestations: Esophageal candidiasis. Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperglycemia, weight gain. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders: Arthralgia, cramps, myositis, osteoporosis. Nervous System Disorders: Paresthesia, restlessness. Psychiatric Disorders: Agitation, aggression, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Dysmenorrhea. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Chest congestion; chest tightness; dyspnea; facial and oropharyngeal edema, immediate bronchospasm; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Ecchymoses, photodermatitis. Vascular Disorders: Pallor."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •LABA increase the risk of asthma-related death and asthma-related hospitalizations. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. ( 5.1 )•Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. Do not use to treat acute symptoms. ( 5.2 )•Do not use in combination with an additional medicine containing LABA because of risk of overdose. ( 5.3 )• Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx may occur. Monitor patients periodically. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing after inhalation to help reduce the risk. ( 5.4 )•Increased risk of pneumonia in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. ( 5.5 )•Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. ( 5.6 )•Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from systemic corticosteroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. ( 5.7 )•Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS slowly. ( 5.8 )•If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS and institute alternative therapy. ( 5.10 )•Use with caution in patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. ( 5.12 )•Assess for decrease in bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. ( 5.13 )•Monitor growth of pediatric patients. ( 5.14 )•Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. ( 5.15 )•Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. ( 5.16 , 5.18 )•Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. ( 5.17 ) LABA, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe ADVAIR DISKUS for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use ADVAIR DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A large placebo‑controlled US trial that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol. The Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) was a randomized double-blind trial that enrolled LABA-naive subjects with asthma to assess the safety of salmeterol 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy. A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of subjects had been enrolled (N = 26,355), which led to premature termination of the trial. The results of the interim analysis showed that subjects receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events (see Table 1 and Figure 1). In the total population, a higher rate of asthma-related death occurred in subjects treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.10% versus 0.02%; relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Post-hoc subpopulation analyses were performed. In Caucasians, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in subjects treated with salmeterol than in subjects treated with placebo (0.07% versus 0.01%; relative risk: 5.82 [95% CI: 0.70, 48.37]). In African Americans also, asthma‑related death occurred at a higher rate in subjects treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.31% versus 0.04%; relative risk: 7.26 [95% CI: 0.89, 58.94]). Although the relative risks of asthma‑related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans, the estimate of excess deaths in subjects treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma‑related death in African American subjects (see Table 1). Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta 2‑agonists, the findings seen in the SMART trial are considered a class effect. Post-hoc analyses in pediatric subjects aged 12 to 18 years were also performed. Pediatric subjects accounted for approximately 12% of subjects in each treatment arm. Respiratory-related death or life-threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group (0.12% [2/1,653]) and the placebo group (0.12% [2/1,622]; relative risk: 1.0 [95% CI: 0.1, 7.2]). All-cause hospitalization, however, was increased in the salmeterol group (2% [35/1,653]) versus the placebo group (<1% [16/1,622]; relative risk: 2.1 [95% CI: 1.1, 3.7]). The data from the SMART trial are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other active ingredient in ADVAIR DISKUS, or other long-term asthma control therapy mitigates the risk of asthma-related death. Table 1. Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) Salmeterol n (% a) Placebo n (% a) Relative Risk b (95% Confidence Interval) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10,000 Subjects c (95% Confidence Interval) Total Population d Salmeterol: n = 13,176 13 (0.10%) 4.37 (1.25, 15.34) 8 (3, 13) Placebo: n = 13,179 3 (0.02%) Caucasian Salmeterol: n = 9,281 6 (0.07%) 5.82 (0.70, 48.37) 6 (1, 10) Placebo: n = 9,361 1 (0.01%) African American Salmeterol: n = 2,366 7 (0.31%) 7.26 (0.89, 58.94) 27 (8, 46) Placebo: n = 2,319 1 (0.04%) aLife-table 28-week estimate, adjusted according to the subjects’ actual lengths of exposure to trial treatment to account for early withdrawal of subjects from the trial. bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma-related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group. The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma-related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28-week treatment period. cEstimate of the number of additional asthma-related deaths in subjects treated with salmeterol in SMART, assuming 10,000 subjects received salmeterol for a 28-week treatment period. Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma-related death multiplied by 10,000. dThe Total Population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form: Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and “Other.” In addition, the Total Population includes those subjects whose ethnic origin was not reported. The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above. No asthma-related deaths occurred in the Hispanic (salmeterol n = 996, placebo n = 999), Asian (salmeterol n = 173, placebo n = 149), or “Other” (salmeterol n = 230, placebo n = 224) subpopulations. One asthma-related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported (salmeterol n = 130, placebo n = 127). Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment A 16-week clinical trial performed in the United Kingdom, the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance (SNS) trial, showed results similar to the SMART trial. In the SNS trial, the rate of asthma-related death was numerically, though not statistically significantly, greater in subjects with asthma treated with salmeterol (42 mcg twice daily) than those treated with albuterol (180 mcg 4 times daily) added to usual asthma therapy. The SNS and SMART trials enrolled subjects with asthma. No trials have been conducted that were primarily designed to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABA. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma or COPD. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in subjects with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. The initiation of ADVAIR DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta 2-agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta 2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily of ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta 2-agonist, not ADVAIR DISKUS, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS, the healthcare provider should also prescribe an inhaled, short-acting beta 2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular twice-daily use of ADVAIR DISKUS. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta 2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medicines containing LABA, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use another medicine containing a LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate, indacaterol) for any reason. In clinical trials, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral) antifungal therapy while treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing following inhalation to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of pneumonia and exacerbations frequently overlap. Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with COPD following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS. In 2 replicate 1-year trials in 1,579 subjects with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in subjects older than 65 years (9%) compared with the incidence in subjects younger than 65 years (4%). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] In a 3-year trial in 6,184 subjects with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in subjects older than 65 years (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with subjects younger than 65 years (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ADVAIR DISKUS may control asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with ADVAIR Diskus. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV 1] or morning peak expiratory flow [AM PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to ADVAIR DISKUS may unmask allergic conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). During withdrawal from oral corticosteroids, some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. Fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ADVAIR DISKUS in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS. Because of the possibility of significant systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids in sensitive patients, patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients who are sensitive to these effects. If such effects occur, ADVAIR DISKUS should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids, and other treatments for management of asthma symptoms should be considered. The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. As with other inhaled medicines, ADVAIR DISKUS can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ADVAIR DISKUS, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; ADVAIR DISKUS should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling, such as stridor and choking, have been reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., urticaria, angioedema, rash, bronchospasm, hypotension), including anaphylaxis, may occur after administration of ADVAIR DISKUS. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy after inhalation of powder products containing lactose; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not use ADVAIR DISKUS [see Contraindications (4)]. Excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, and insomnia [see Overdosage (10)]. Therefore, ADVAIR DISKUS, like all products containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram (ECG) changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol (12 to 20 times the recommended dose) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, postmenopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating ADVAIR DISKUS and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and ADVAIR DISKUS is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medicine to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. 2-Year Fluticasone Propionate Trial: A 2-year trial in 160 subjects (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving CFC-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 3-Year Bone Mineral Density Trial: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 or salmeterol 50 mcg on BMD at the L 1-L 4 lumbar spine and total hip were evaluated in 186 subjects with COPD (aged 43 to 87 years) in a 3-year double-blind trial. Of those enrolled, 108 subjects (72 males and 36 females) were followed for the entire 3 years. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 6-month intervals. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this trial regarding BMD decline in subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS versus salmeterol due to the inconsistency of treatment differences across gender and between lumbar spine and total hip. In this trial there were 7 non-traumatic fractures reported in 5 subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 1 non-traumatic fracture in 1 subject treated with salmeterol. None of the non-traumatic fractures occurred in the vertebrae, hip, or long bones. 3-Year Survival Trial: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on BMD was evaluated in a subset of 658 subjects (females and males aged 40 to 80 years) with COPD in the 3-year survival trial. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this trial because of the large number of dropouts (>50%) before the end of the follow-up and the maldistribution of covariates among the treatment groups that can affect BMD. Fracture risk was estimated for the entire population of subjects with COPD in the survival trial (N = 6,184). The probability of a fracture over 3 years was 6.3% for ADVAIR DISKUS, 5.4% for fluticasone propionate, 5.1% for salmeterol, and 5.1% for placebo. Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR DISKUS, titrate each patient’s dosage to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with asthma and COPD following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on development of cataracts or glaucoma was evaluated in a subset of 658 subjects with COPD in the 3-year survival trial. Ophthalmic examinations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions about cataracts cannot be drawn from this trial because the high incidence of cataracts at baseline (61% to 71%) resulted in an inadequate number of subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 who were eligible and available for evaluation of cataracts at the end of the trial (n = 53). The incidence of newly diagnosed glaucoma was 2% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 5% with fluticasone propionate, 0% with salmeterol, and 2% with placebo. In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established. ADVAIR DISKUS, like all medicines containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. Beta-adrenergic agonist medicines may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical trials with ADVAIR DISKUS at recommended doses. MM1"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=24
Page 24 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "FLOVENTHFA HFA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "DRUG INTERACTIONS Use with strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors such as ritonavir and ketoconazole is not recommended. Systemic corticosteroid effects may occur. (7.1) Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with FLOVENT HFA is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate concentration, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ketoconazole is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Reduction in bone mineral density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] •Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The incidence of common adverse reactions in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled US clinical trials in which 812 adult and adolescent patients (457 females and 355 males) previously treated with as-needed bronchodilators and/or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily for up to 12 weeks with 2 inhalations of FLOVENT HFA 44 mcg Inhalation Aerosol, FLOVENT HFA 110 mcg Inhalation Aerosol, FLOVENT HFA 220 mcg Inhalation Aerosol (dosages of 88, 220, or 440 mcg twice daily), or placebo. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With >3% Incidence in US Controlled Clinical Trials With FLOVENT HFA in Patients Aged 12 Years and Older With Asthma Previously Receiving Bronchodilators and/or Inhaled Corticosteroids Adverse Event FLOVENT HFA 88 mcg Twice Daily (n = 203) % FLOVENT HFA 220 mcg Twice Daily (n = 204) % FLOVENT HFA 440 mcg Twice Daily (n = 202) % Placebo (n = 203) % Ear, nose, and throat Upper respiratory tract infection 18 16 16 14 Throat irritation 8 8 10 5 Upper respiratory inflammation 2 5 5 1 Sinusitis/sinus infection 6 7 4 3 Hoarseness/dysphonia 2 3 6 <1 Gastrointestinal Candidiasis mouth/throat & non-site specific 4 2 5 <1 Lower respiratory Cough 4 6 4 5 Bronchitis 2 2 6 5 Neurological Headache 11 7 5 6 Table 2 includes all events (whether considered drug-related or nondrug-related by the investigator) that occurred at a rate of over 3% in any of the groups treated with FLOVENT HFA and were more common than in the placebo group. Less than 2% of patients discontinued from the studies because of adverse reactions. The average duration of exposure was 73 to 76 days in the active treatment groups compared with 60 days in the placebo group. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with FLOVENT HFA compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: rhinitis, rhinorrhea/post-nasal drip, nasal sinus disorders, laryngitis, diarrhea, viral gastrointestinal infections, dyspeptic symptoms, gastrointestinal discomfort and pain, hyposalivation, musculoskeletal pain, muscle pain, muscle stiffness/tightness/rigidity, dizziness, migraines, fever, viral infections, pain, chest symptoms, viral skin infections, muscle injuries, soft tissue injuries, urinary infections. Fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol (440 or 880 mcg twice daily) was administered for 16 weeks to 168 patients with asthma requiring oral corticosteroids (Study 3). Adverse reactions not included above, but reported by more than 3 patients in either group treated with FLOVENT HFA and more commonly than in the placebo group included nausea and vomiting, arthralgia and articular rheumatism, and malaise and fatigue. In 2 long-term studies (26 and 52 weeks), the pattern of adverse reactions in patients treated with FLOVENT HFA at dosages up to 440 mcg twice daily was similar to that observed in the 12-week studies. There were no new and/or unexpected adverse reactions with long-term treatment. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: FLOVENT HFA has been evaluated for safety in 56 pediatric patients who received 88 mcg twice daily for 4 weeks. Types of adverse reactions in these pediatric patients were generally similar to those observed in adults and adolescents. In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. Ear, Nose, and Throat: Aphonia, facial and oropharyngeal edema, and throat soreness and irritation. Endocrine and Metabolic: Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hyperglycemia, osteoporosis, and weight gain. Eye: Cataracts. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Dental caries and tooth discoloration. Psychiatry: Agitation, aggression, anxiety, depression, and restlessness. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reactions, including urticaria, anaphylaxis, rash, and angioedema and bronchospasm, have been reported. Respiratory: Asthma exacerbation, chest tightness, cough, dyspnea, immediate and delayed bronchospasm, paradoxical bronchospasm, pneumonia, and wheeze. Skin: Contusions, cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions, ecchymoses, and pruritus. Eosinophilic Conditions: In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions, with some patients presenting with clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)]."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse mouth following inhalation. (5.1)•Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patients with above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.3)•Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to FLOVENT HFA. (5.4)•Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue FLOVENT HFA slowly. (5.5)•Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, may occur after administration of FLOVENT HFA. Discontinue FLOVENT HFA if such reactions occur. (4, 5.6)•Decreases in bone mineral density: Assess bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter in patients at risk. (5.7)•Effect on growth: Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.8)•Glaucoma and cataracts: Close monitoring is warranted. (5.9) In clinical studies, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in patients treated with FLOVENT HFA. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral antifungal) therapy while treatment with FLOVENT HFA continues, but at times therapy with FLOVENT HFA may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of FLOVENT HFA [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. FLOVENT HFA is not to be regarded as a bronchodilator and is not indicated for rapid relief of bronchospasm. Patients should be instructed to contact their physicians immediately when episodes of asthma that are not responsive to bronchodilators occur during the course of treatment with FLOVENT HFA. During such episodes, patients may require therapy with oral corticosteroids. Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Because of the potential for worsening infections, inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infection of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to FLOVENT HFA. In a clinical trial of 168 patients, prednisone reduction was successfully accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose on a weekly basis following initiation of treatment with FLOVENT HFA. Successive reduction of prednisone dose was allowed only when lung function, symptoms, and as-needed short-acting beta-agonist use were better than or comparable to that seen before initiation of prednisone dose reduction. Lung function (forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [AM PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although inhaled corticosteroids may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses they supply less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid (cortisol) systemically and do NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to FLOVENT HFA may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). Some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression, despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function). Fluticasone propionate will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of FLOVENT HFA in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing FLOVENT HFA. Because of the possibility of systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with FLOVENT HFA should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when FLOVENT HFA is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of FLOVENT HFA should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, and bronchospasm, may occur after administration of FLOVENT HFA [see Contraindications (4)]. Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term outcomes is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, postmenopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids), should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving FLOVENT HFA routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including FLOVENT HFA, titrate each patient’s dosage to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. As with other inhaled medications, bronchospasm may occur with an immediate increase in wheezing after dosing. If bronchospasm occurs following dosing with FLOVENT HFA, it should be treated immediately with a fast-acting inhaled bronchodilator. Treatment with FLOVENT HFA should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with FLOVENT HFA is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=25
Page 25 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL"
        "brand_name": [
          "ADVAIR DISKUS"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta2-agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD, without adverse drug reactions. No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with ADVAIR DISKUS. Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Use not recommended. May cause systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. (7.1) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of salmeterol on vascular system. (7.2) Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. (7.3) Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. (7.4) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and reduced plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction study in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and Cmax increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. 7.3 Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with reversible obstructive airways disease. Therefore, patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Pneumonia in patients with COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥3%) are: Asthma: upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, pharyngitis, dysphonia, oral candidiasis, bronchitis, cough, headaches, nausea and vomiting. (6.1) COPD: pneumonia, oral candidiasis, throat irritation, dysphonia, viral respiratory infections, headaches, musculoskeletal pain. (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Asthma Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older: The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR DISKUS in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled, 12-week, US clinical studies (Studies 1 and 2). A total of 705 adult and adolescent patients (349 females and 356 males) previously treated with salmeterol or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS (100/50- or 250/50-mcg doses), fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100- or 250-mcg doses), salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. The average duration of exposure was 60 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 42 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (N = 92)% ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 84)% Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (N = 90)% Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 84)% Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 180)% Placebo (N = 175)% Ear, nose, & throat Upper respiratory tractinfection 27 21 29 25 19 14 Pharyngitis 13 10 7 12 8 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 7 6 7 8 8 5 Sinusitis 4 5 6 1 3 4 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 2 2 4 <1 <1 Oral candidiasis 1 4 2 2 0 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 4 4 4 10 6 3 Bronchitis 2 8 1 2 2 2 Cough 3 6 0 0 3 2 Neurology Headaches 12 13 14 8 10 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea & vomiting 4 6 3 4 1 1 Gastrointestinal discomfort& pain 4 1 0 2 1 1 Diarrhea 4 2 2 2 1 1 Viral gastrointestinal infections 3 0 3 1 2 2 Non-site specific Candidiasis unspecified site 3 0 1 4 0 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 4 2 1 5 3 3 The types of adverse reactions and events reported in Study 3, a 28-week, non-US clinical study of 503 patients previously treated with inhaled corticosteroids who were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg used concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, were similar to those reported in Table 2. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: lymphatic signs and symptoms; muscle injuries; fractures; wounds and lacerations; contusions and hematomas; ear signs and symptoms; nasal signs and symptoms; nasal sinus disorders; keratitis and conjunctivitis; dental discomfort and pain; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; oral discomfort and pain; lower respiratory signs and symptoms; pneumonia; muscle stiffness, tightness, and rigidity; bone and cartilage disorders; sleep disorders; compressed nerve syndromes; viral infections; pain; chest symptoms; fluid retention; bacterial infections; unusual taste; viral skin infections; skin flakiness and acquired ichthyosis; disorders of sweat and sebum. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: The safety data for pediatric patients aged 4 to 11 years is based upon 1 US trial of 12 weeks’ treatment duration. A total of 203 patients (74 females and 129 males) who were receiving inhaled corticosteroids at study entry were randomized to either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily. Common adverse reactions (≥3% and greater than placebo) seen in the pediatric patients but not reported in the adult and adolescent clinical trials include: throat irritation and ear, nose, and throat infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities: Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in ≥1% of patients in clinical trials. The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the studies. In addition, there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Short-Term (6 Months to 1 Year) Trials: The short-term safety data are based on exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily in one 6-month and two 1-year clinical trials. In the 6-month trial, a total of 723 adult patients (266 females and 457 males) were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder, or placebo. The mean age of the patients was 64, and the majority (93%) was Caucasian. In this trial, 70% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS reported an adverse reaction compared with 64% on placebo. The average duration of exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was 141.3 days compared with 131.6 days for placebo. The incidence of adverse reactions in the 6-month study is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Overall Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Associated With Chronic Bronchitis Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 178)% Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 183)% Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 177)% Placebo (N = 185)% Ear, nose, & throat Candidiasis mouth/throat 10 6 3 1 Throat irritation 8 5 4 7 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 3 <1 0 Sinusitis 3 8 5 3 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 6 4 3 3 Neurology Headaches 16 11 10 12 Dizziness 4 <1 3 2 Non-site specific Fever 4 3 0 3 Malaise & fatigue 3 2 2 3 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 9 8 12 9 Muscle cramps & spasms 3 3 1 1 In the two 1-year studies, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was compared with salmeterol in 1,579 patients (863 males and 716 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (94%) was Caucasian. To be enrolled, all of the patients had to have had a COPD exacerbation in the previous 12 months. In this trial, 88% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 86% of the patients treated with salmeterol reported an adverse event. The most common events that occurred with a frequency of >5% and more frequently in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, back pain, sinusitis, dizziness, nausea, pneumonia, candidiasis, and dysphonia. Overall, 55 (7%) of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 25 (3%) of the patients treated with salmeterol developed pneumonia. The incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age, 9% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with 4% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS less than 65 years of age. In the patients treated with salmeterol, the incidence of pneumonia was the same (3%) in both age-groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Long-Term (3-Year) Trial: The safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international, 3-year study in 6,184 adult patients with COPD (4,684 males and 1,500 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (82%) was Caucasian. The distribution of adverse events was similar to that seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. In addition, pneumonia was reported in a significantly increased number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg (16% and 14%, respectively) compared with patients treated with salmeterol 50 mcg or placebo (11% and 9%, respectively). When adjusted for time on treatment, the rates of pneumonia were 84 and 88 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the groups treated with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg and with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, compared with 52 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the salmeterol and placebo groups. Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with COPD treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: syncope; ear, nose, and throat infections; ear signs and symptoms; laryngitis; nasal congestion/blockage; nasal sinus disorders; pharyngitis/throat infection; hypothyroidism; dry eyes; eye infections; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral lesions; abnormal liver function tests; bacterial infections; edema and swelling; viral infections. Laboratory Abnormalities: There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials. Specifically, no increased reporting of neutrophilia or changes in glucose or potassium was noted. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during worldwide use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR DISKUS, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders: Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), ventricular tachycardia. Endocrine Disorders: Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism. Eye Disorders: Glaucoma. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, xerostomia. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reaction (including very rare anaphylactic reaction). Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy. Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperglycemia, weight gain. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders: Arthralgia, cramps, myositis, osteoporosis. Nervous System Disorders: Paresthesia, restlessness. Psychiatric Disorders: Agitation, aggression, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Dysmenorrhea. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Chest congestion; chest tightness; dyspnea; facial and oropharyngeal edema, immediate bronchospasm; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Ecchymoses, photodermatitis. Vascular Disorders: Pallor."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Asthma-related death: LABAs increase the risk. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. (5.1) Deterioration of disease and acute episodes: Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or to treat acute symptoms. (5.2) Use with additional LABA: Do not use in combination because of risk of overdose. (5.3) Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and throat may occur. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse the mouth following inhalation. (5.4) Pneumonia: Increased risk in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. (5.5) Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis, fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.6) Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.7) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS slowly. (5.8) Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Risk of increased systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. Use not recommended with ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.9) Paradoxical bronchospasm: Discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS and institute alternative therapy if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs. (5.10) Patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders: Use with caution because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. (5.12) Decreases in bone mineral density: Assess bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.13) Effects on growth: Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.14) Glaucoma and cataracts: Close monitoring is warranted. (5.15) Metabolic effects: Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. (5.16, 5.18) Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.17) 5.1 Asthma-Related Death LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABAs. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABAs increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe ADVAIR DISKUS for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use ADVAIR DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol. The Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) was a randomized double-blind study that enrolled LABA-naive patients with asthma to assess the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT® Inhalation Aerosol) 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy. A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of patients had been enrolled (N = 26,355), which led to premature termination of the study. The results of the interim analysis showed that patients receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events (see Table 1 and Figure 1). In the total population, a higher rate of asthma-related death occurred in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.10% versus 0.02%, relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Post-hoc subpopulation analyses were performed. In Caucasians, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than in patients treated with placebo (0.07% versus 0.01%, relative risk: 5.82 [95% CI: 0.70, 48.37]). In African Americans also, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.31% versus 0.04%, relative risk: 7.26 [95% CI: 0.89, 58.94]). Although the relative risks of asthma-related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans, the estimate of excess deaths in patients treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma-related death in African American patients (see Table 1). Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta2-agonists, the findings seen in the SMART study are considered a class effect. Post-hoc analyses in pediatric patients aged 12 to 18 years were also performed. Pediatric patients accounted for approximately 12% of patients in each treatment arm. Respiratory-related death or life-threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group (0.12% [2/1,653]) and the placebo group (0.12% [2/1,622]; relative risk: 1.0 [95% CI: 0.1, 7.2]). All-cause hospitalization, however, was increased in the salmeterol group (2% [35/1,653]) versus the placebo group (<1% [16/1,622]; relative risk: 2.1 [95% CI: 1.1, 3.7]). The data from the SMART study are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other active ingredient in ADVAIR DISKUS, or other long-term asthma control therapy mitigates the risk of asthma-related death. Table 1. Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) Salmeteroln (%a) Placebon (%a) Relative Riskb (95% ConfidenceInterval) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10,000 Patientsc (95% ConfidenceInterval) Total Populationd Salmeterol: N = 13,176 13 (0.10%) 4.37 (1.25, 15.34) 8 (3, 13) Placebo: N = 13,179 3 (0.02%) Caucasian Salmeterol: N = 9,281 6 (0.07%) 5.82 (0.70, 48.37) 6 (1, 10) Placebo: N = 9,361 1 (0.01%) African American Salmeterol: N = 2,366 7 (0.31%) 7.26 (0.89, 58.94) 27 (8, 46) Placebo: N = 2,319 1 (0.04%) aLife-table 28-week estimate, adjusted according to the patients’ actual lengths of exposure to study treatment to account for early withdrawal of patients from the study. bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma-related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group. The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma-related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28-week treatment period. cEstimate of the number of additional asthma-related deaths in patients treated with salmeterol in SMART, assuming 10,000 patients received salmeterol for a 28-week treatment period. Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma-related death multiplied by 10,000. dThe Total Population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form: Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and “Other.” In addition, the Total Population includes those patients whose ethnic origin was not reported. The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above. No asthma-related deaths occurred in the Hispanic (salmeterol n = 996, placebo n = 999), Asian (salmeterol n = 173, placebo n = 149), or “Other” (salmeterol n = 230, placebo n = 224) subpopulations. One asthma-related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported (salmeterol n = 130, placebo n = 127). Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment A 16-week clinical study performed in the United Kingdom, the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance (SNS) study, showed results similar to the SMART study. In the SNS study, the rate of asthma-related death was numerically, though not statistically significantly, greater in patients with asthma treated with salmeterol (42 mcg twice daily) than those treated with albuterol (180 mcg 4 times daily) added to usual asthma therapy. The SNS and SMART studies enrolled patients with asthma. No studies have been conducted that were primarily designed to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABAs. 5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes ADVAIR DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma or COPD. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. The initiation of ADVAIR DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily (morning and evening) of ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist, not ADVAIR DISKUS, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS, the physician must also provide the patient with an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular twice-daily (morning and evening) use of ADVAIR DISKUS. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. 5.3 Excessive Use of ADVAIR DISKUS and Use With Other Long-Acting Beta2-Agonists As with other inhaled drugs containing beta2-adrenergic agents, ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medications containing LABAs, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use an additional LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate) for any reason, including prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm (EIB) or the treatment of asthma or COPD. 5.4 Local Effects In clinical studies, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral antifungal) therapy while treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS. 5.5 Pneumonia Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of pneumonia and exacerbations frequently overlap. Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with COPD following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS. In 2 replicate 12-month studies of 1,579 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in patients over 65 years of age (9%) compared with the incidence in patients less than 65 years of age (4%). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] In a 3-year study of 6,184 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] 5.6 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.7 Transferring Patients From Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ADVAIR DISKUS may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to inhaled corticosteroids or ADVAIR DISKUS may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). Some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.8 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ADVAIR DISKUS in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS. Because of the possibility of systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when fluticasone propionate is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of ADVAIR DISKUS should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma symptoms. 5.9 Drug Interactions With Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm and Upper Airway Symptoms As with other inhaled medications, ADVAIR DISKUS can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ADVAIR DISKUS, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; ADVAIR DISKUS should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling, such as stridor and choking, have been reported in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and salmeterol. 5.11 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ADVAIR DISKUS, as demonstrated by cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, and bronchospasm. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not take ADVAIR DISKUS [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.12 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects Excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, and insomnia [see Overdosage (10)]. Therefore, ADVAIR DISKUS, like all products containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram (ECG) changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol (12 to 20 times the recommended dose) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. 5.13 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, post-menopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating ADVAIR DISKUS and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and ADVAIR DISKUS is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medication to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. 2-Year Fluticasone Propionate Study: A 2-year study of 160 patients (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving CFC-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 3-Year Bone Mineral Density Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 or salmeterol 50 mcg on BMD at the L1-L4 lumbar spine and total hip were evaluated in 186 patients with COPD (aged 43 to 87 years) in a 3-year double-blind study. Of those enrolled, 108 patients (72 males and 36 females) were followed for the entire 3 years. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 6-month intervals. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study regarding BMD decline in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS versus salmeterol due to the inconsistency of treatment differences across gender and between lumbar spine and total hip. In this study there were 7 non-traumatic fractures reported in 5 patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 1 non-traumatic fracture in 1 patient treated with salmeterol. None of the non-traumatic fractures occurred in the vertebrae, hip, or long bones. 3-Year Survival Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on BMD was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients (females and males aged 40 to 80 years) with COPD in the 3-year survival study. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study because of the large number of drop outs (>50%) before the end of the follow-up and the maldistribution of covariates among the treatment groups that can affect BMD. Fracture risk was estimated for the entire population of patients with COPD in the survival study (N = 6,184). The probability of a fracture over 3 years was 6.3% for ADVAIR DISKUS, 5.4% for fluticasone propionate, 5.1% for salmeterol, and 5.1% for placebo. 5.14 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR DISKUS, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4).] 5.15 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with asthma and COPD following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on development of cataracts or glaucoma was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients with COPD in the 3-year survival study. Ophthalmic examinations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions about cataracts cannot be drawn from this study because the high incidence of cataracts at baseline (61% to 71%) resulted in an inadequate number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 who were eligible and available for evaluation of cataracts at the end of the study (n = 53). The incidence of newly diagnosed glaucoma was 2% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 5% with fluticasone propionate, 0% with salmeterol, and 2% with placebo. 5.16 Eosinophilic Conditions and Churg-Strauss Syndrome In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established. 5.17 Coexisting Conditions ADVAIR DISKUS, like all medications containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. 5.18 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta-adrenergic agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical studies with ADVAIR DISKUS at recommended doses. Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=26
Page 26 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "FLONASEALLERGY RELIEF ALLERGY RELIEF"
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=27
Page 27 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products, including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 50 mcg per spray, with ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing's syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Effect on growth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most common adverse reactions (>3%) are headache, pharyngitis, epistaxis, nasal burning/nasal irritation, nausea/vomiting, asthma symptoms, and cough. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Wockhardt USA, LLC at 1-800-445-4290 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled US clinical trials, more than 3,300 subjects with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical trials have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by subjects treated with placebo. Less than 2% of subjects in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. The safety data described below are based on 7 placebo-controlled clinical trials in subjects with allergic rhinitis. The 7 trials included 536 subjects (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) treated with Fluticasone Propionate 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials which included 246 subjects (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) treated with Fluticasone Propionate 200 mcg once daily over 6 months (Table 1). Also included in Table 1 are adverse reactions from 2 trials in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects ≥4 Years with Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Reaction Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone Propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Placebo (n = 758) % Headache 6.6 16.1 14.6 Pharyngitis 6.0 7.8 7.2 Epistaxis 6.0 6.9 5.4 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.4 3.2 2.6 Nausea/vomiting 4.8 2.6 2.0 Asthma symptoms 7.2 3.3 2.9 Cough 3.6 3.8 2.8 Other adverse reactions with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray observed with an incidence less than or equal to 3% but greater than or equal to 1% and more common than with placebo included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, and bronchitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Disorders Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including Fluticasone Propionate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1) Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.2) Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray. Discontinue Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray if such reactions occur. (5.3) Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray slowly. (5.5) Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.7) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks' duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in subjects treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Nasal Ulceration Postmarketing cases of nasal ulceration have been reported in patients treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Candida Infection In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray. Patients using Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should avoid using Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Use of intranasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray. Discontinue Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)]. Rarely, immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the administration of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray. 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the complete prescribing information for VZIG and IG.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal corticosteroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression). Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.7 Effect on Growth Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, titrate each patient's dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=28
Page 28 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products, including fluticasone propionate, with ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Effect on growth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled US clinical trials, more than 3,300 subjects with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical trials have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by subjects treated with placebo. Less than 2% of subjects in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. The safety data described below are based on 7 placebo-controlled clinical trials in subjects with allergic rhinitis. The 7 trials included 536 subjects (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials which included 246 subjects (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 6 months (Table 1). Also included in Table 1 are adverse reactions from 2 trials in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with fluticasone propionate 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects ≥4 Years with Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Reaction Fluticasone propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Placebo (n=758)% Headache 6.6 16.1 14.6 Pharyngitis 6.0 7.8 7.2 Epistaxis 6.0 6.9 5.4 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.4 3.2 2.6 Nausea/vomiting 4.8 2.6 2.0 Asthma symptoms 7.2 3.3 2.9 Cough 3.6 3.8 2.8 Other adverse reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray observed with an incidence less than or equal to 3% but greater than or equal to 1% and more common than with placebo included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, and bronchitis. In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1) Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.2) Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur. (5.3) Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray slowly. (5.5) Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.7) Epistaxis In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks’ duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in subjects treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Nasal Ulceration Postmarketing cases of nasal ulceration have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Candida Infection In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Patients using fluticasone propionate nasal spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should avoid using fluticasone propionate nasal spray until healing has occurred. Use of intranasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)]. Rarely, immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the complete prescribing information for VZIG and IG.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. When intranasal corticosteroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of fluticasone propionate nasal spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression). Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving fluticasone propionate nasal spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate nasal spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=29
Page 29 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE FUROATE AND VILANTEROL TRIFENATATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Breo Ellipta"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "DRUG INTERACTIONS •Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole): Use with caution. May cause systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. ( 7.1 )•Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of vilanterol on vascular system. ( 7.2 )•Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. ( 7.3 )•Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with non–potassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. ( 7.4 ) Fluticasone furoate and vilanterol, the individual components of BREO ELLIPTA, are both substrates of CYP3A4. Concomitant administration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole increases the systemic exposure to fluticasone furoate and vilanterol. Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of BREO ELLIPTA with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, clarithromycin, conivaptan, indinavir, itraconazole, lopinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, troleandomycin, voriconazole) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Vilanterol, like other beta 2-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, or drugs known to prolong the QTc interval or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated by these agents. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as vilanterol, a component of BREO ELLIPTA, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with COPD or asthma. Therefore, patients with COPD or asthma should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. The electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non‑potassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with non–potassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS LABA, such as vilanterol, one of the active ingredients in BREO ELLIPTA, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Data from a large placebo-controlled US trial that compared the safety of another LABA (salmeterol) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1).] Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Increased risk of pneumonia in COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Reduction in bone mineral density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The clinical program for BREO ELLIPTA included 7,700 subjects with COPD in two 6-month lung function trials, two 12-month exacerbation trials, and 6 other trials of shorter duration. A total of 2,034 subjects with COPD received at least 1 dose of BREO ELLIPTA 100/25, and 1,087 subjects received a higher strength of fluticasone furoate/vilanterol. The safety data described below are based on the confirmatory 6- and 12-month trials. Adverse reactions observed in the other trials were similar to those observed in the confirmatory trials. 6-Month Trials The incidence of adverse reactions associated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 in Table 1 is based on 2 placebo-controlled, 6-month clinical trials (Trials 1 and 2; n = 1,224 and n = 1,030, respectively). Of the 2,254 subjects, 70% were male and 84% were white. They had a mean age of 62 years and an average smoking history of 44 pack-years, with 54% identified as current smokers. At screening, the mean postbronchodilator percent predicted FEV 1 was 48% (range: 14% to 87%), the mean postbronchodilator FEV 1/forced vital capacity (FVC) ratio was 47% (range: 17% to 88%), and the mean percent reversibility was 14% (range: -41% to 152%). Subjects received 1 inhalation once daily of the following: BREO ELLIPTA 100/25, BREO ELLIPTA 200/25, fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 50 mcg/25 mcg, fluticasone furoate 100 mcg, fluticasone furoate 200 mcg, vilanterol 25 mcg, or placebo. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 with ≥3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Adverse Reaction BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 (n = 410) % Vilanterol 25 mcg (n = 408) % Fluticasone Furoate 100 mcg (n = 410) % Placebo (n = 412) % Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 9 10 8 8 Upper respiratory tract infection 7 5 4 3 Oropharyngeal candidiasis a 5 2 3 2 Nervous system disorders Headache 7 9 7 5 aIncludes oral candidiasis, oropharyngeal candidiasis, candidiasis, and fungal oropharyngitis. 12-Month Trials Long-term safety data is based on two 12-month trials (Trials 3 and 4; n = 1,633 and n = 1,622, respectively). Trials 3 and 4 included 3,255 subjects, of which 57% were male and 85% were white. They had a mean age of 64 years and an average smoking history of 46 pack-years, with 44% identified as current smokers. At screening, the mean postbronchodilator percent predicted FEV 1 was 45% (range: 12% to 91%), and the mean postbronchodilator FEV 1/FVC ratio was 46% (range: 17% to 81%), indicating that the subject population had moderate to very severely impaired airflow obstruction. Subjects received 1 inhalation once daily of the following: BREO ELLIPTA 100/25, BREO ELLIPTA 200/25, fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 50 mcg/25 mcg, or vilanterol 25 mcg. In addition to the reactions shown in Table 1, adverse reactions occurring in greater than or equal to 3% of the subjects treated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 (n = 806) for 12 months included back pain, pneumonia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)], bronchitis, sinusitis, cough, oropharyngeal pain, arthralgia, influenza, pharyngitis, and pyrexia. BREO ELLIPTA for the treatment of asthma was studied in 18 double-blind, parallel-group, controlled trials (11 with placebo) of 4 to 76 weeks’ duration, which enrolled 9,969 subjects with asthma. BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 was studied in 2,369 subjects and BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 was studied in 956 subjects. While subjects aged 12 to 17 years were included in these trials, BREO ELLIPTA is not approved for use in this age-group [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. The safety data described below are based on two 12-week efficacy trials, one 24-week efficacy trial, and two long-term trials. 12-Week Trials Trial 1 was a 12-week trial that evaluated the efficacy of BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 in adolescent and adult subjects with asthma compared with fluticasone furoate 100 mcg and placebo. Of the 609 subjects, 58% were female and 84% were white; the mean age was 40 years. The incidence of adverse reactions associated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 is shown in Table 2. Table 2. Adverse Reactions with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 with ≥2% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects with Asthma (Trial 1) Adverse Reaction BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 (n = 201) % Fluticasone Furoate 100 mcg (n = 205) % Placebo (n = 203) % Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 10 7 7 Oral candidiasis a 2 2 0 Nervous system disorders Headache 5 4 4 Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Oropharyngeal pain 2 2 1 Dysphonia 2 1 0 aIncludes oral candidiasis and oropharyngeal candidiasis. Trial 2 was a 12-week trial that evaluated the efficacy of BREO ELLIPTA 100/25, BREO ELLIPTA 200/25, and fluticasone furoate 100 mcg in adolescent and adult subjects with asthma. This trial did not have a placebo arm. Of the 1,039 subjects, 60% were female and 88% were white; the mean age was 46 years. The incidence of adverse reactions associated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 and BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Adverse Reactions with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 and BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 with ≥2% Incidence in Subjects with Asthma (Trial 2) Adverse Reaction BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 (n = 346) % BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 (n = 346) % Fluticasone Furoate 100 mcg (n = 347) % Nervous system disorders Headache 8 8 9 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 7 6 7 Influenza 3 3 1 Upper respiratory tract infection 2 2 3 Sinusitis 2 1 <1 Bronchitis 2 <1 2 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Oropharyngeal pain 2 2 1 Cough 1 2 1 24-Week Trial Trial 3 was a 24-week trial that evaluated the efficacy of BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 once daily, fluticasone furoate 200 mcg once daily, and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg twice daily in adolescent and adult subjects with asthma. Of the 586 subjects, 59% were female and 84% were white; the mean age was 46 years. This trial did not have a placebo arm. In addition to the reactions shown in Tables 2 and 3, adverse reactions occurring in greater than or equal to 2% of subjects treated with BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 included viral respiratory tract infection, pharyngitis, pyrexia, and arthralgia. 12-Month Trial Long-term safety data is based on a 12-month trial that evaluated the safety of BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 once daily (n = 201), BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 once daily (n = 202), and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg twice daily (n = 100) in adolescent and adult subjects with asthma (Trial 4). Overall, 63% were female and 67% were white. The mean age was 39 years; adolescents (aged 12 to 17 years) made up 16% of the population. In addition to the reactions shown in Tables 2 and 3, adverse reactions occurring in greater than or equal to 2% of the subjects treated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 or BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 for 12 months included pyrexia, back pain, extrasystoles, upper abdominal pain, respiratory tract infection, allergic rhinitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, arthralgia, supraventricular extrasystoles, ventricular extrasystoles, acute sinusitis, and pneumonia. Exacerbation Trial In a 24- to 76-week trial, subjects received BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 (n = 1,009) or fluticasone furoate 100 mcg (n = 1,010) (Trial 5). Subjects participating in this trial had a history of one or more asthma exacerbations that required treatment with oral/systemic corticosteroids or emergency department visit or in-patient hospitalization for the treatment of asthma in the year prior to trial entry. Overall, 67% were female and 73% were white; the mean age was 42 years (adolescents aged 12 to 17 years made up 14% of the population). While subjects aged 12 to 17 years were included in this trial, BREO ELLIPTA is not approved for use in this age-group [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Asthma-related hospitalizations occurred in 10 subjects (1%) treated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 compared with 7 subjects (0.7%) treated with fluticasone furoate 100 mcg. Among subjects aged 12 to 17 years, asthma-related hospitalizations occurred in 4 subjects (2.6%) treated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 (n = 151) compared with 0 subjects treated with fluticasone furoate 100 mcg (n = 130). There were no asthma-related deaths or asthma-related intubations observed in this trial. In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of BREO ELLIPTA. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to BREO ELLIPTA or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders Palpitations, tachycardia. Immune System Disorders Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria. Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Muscle spasms. Nervous System Disorders Tremor. Psychiatric Disorders Nervousness."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •LABA increase the risk of asthma-related death and asthma-related hospitalizations. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. ( 5.1 )•Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating COPD or asthma. Do not use to treat acute symptoms. ( 5.2 )•Do not use in combination with an additional medicine containing a LABA because of risk of overdose. ( 5.3 )• Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx may occur. Monitor patients periodically. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing after inhalation to help reduce the risk. ( 5.4 ) •Increased risk of pneumonia in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. ( 5.5 )•Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. ( 5.6 )•Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from systemic corticosteroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to BREO ELLIPTA. ( 5.7 )•Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue BREO ELLIPTA slowly. ( 5.8 )•If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs, discontinue BREO ELLIPTA and institute alternative therapy. ( 5.10 )•Use with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. ( 5.12 )•Assess for decrease in bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. ( 5.13 )•Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. ( 5.14 )•Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. ( 5.15 )•Be alert to hypokalemia and hyperglycemia. ( 5.16 ) LABA, such as vilanterol, one of the active ingredients in BREO ELLIPTA, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe BREO ELLIPTA for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue BREO ELLIPTA) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use BREO ELLIPTA for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A 28-week, placebo-controlled, US trial that compared the safety of another LABA (salmeterol) with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol (13/13,176 in subjects treated with salmeterol vs. 3/13,179 in subjects treated with placebo; relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). The increased risk of asthma-related death is considered a class effect of LABA, including vilanterol, one of the active ingredients in BREO ELLIPTA. No trial adequate to determine whether the rate of asthma-related death is increased in subjects treated with BREO ELLIPTA has been conducted. Data are not available to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABA. BREO ELLIPTA should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of COPD or asthma. BREO ELLIPTA has not been studied in subjects with acutely deteriorating COPD or asthma. The initiation of BREO ELLIPTA in this setting is not appropriate. COPD may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer. If BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction; the patient’s inhaled, short-acting, beta 2-agonist becomes less effective; or the patient needs more short-acting beta 2-agonist than usual, these may be markers of deterioration of disease. In this setting a reevaluation of the patient and the COPD treatment regimen should be undertaken at once. For COPD, increasing the daily dose of BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 is not appropriate in this situation. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta 2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of BREO ELLIPTA with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation once daily of BREO ELLIPTA. BREO ELLIPTA should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. BREO ELLIPTA has not been studied in the relief of acute symptoms and extra doses should not be used for that purpose. Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled, short-acting beta 2-agonist. When beginning treatment with BREO ELLIPTA, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta 2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs and to use them only for symptomatic relief of acute respiratory symptoms. When prescribing BREO ELLIPTA, the healthcare provider should also prescribe an inhaled, short-acting beta 2-agonist and instruct the patient on how it should be used. BREO ELLIPTA should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medicines containing LABA, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using BREO ELLIPTA should not use another medicine containing a LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate, indacaterol) for any reason. In clinical trials, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in subjects treated with BREO ELLIPTA. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral) antifungal therapy while treatment with BREO ELLIPTA continues, but at times therapy with BREO ELLIPTA may need to be interrupted. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing following inhalation to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. An increase in the incidence of pneumonia has been observed in subjects with COPD receiving BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 in clinical trials. There was also an increased incidence of pneumonias resulting in hospitalization. In some incidences these pneumonia events were fatal. Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of such infections overlap with the symptoms of COPD exacerbations. In replicate 12-month trials in 3,255 subjects with COPD who had experienced a COPD exacerbation in the previous year, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in subjects receiving fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 50 mcg/25 mcg: 6% (48 of 820 subjects); BREO ELLIPTA 100/25: 6% (51 of 806 subjects); or BREO ELLIPTA 200/25: 7% (55 of 811 subjects) than in subjects receiving vilanterol 25 mcg: 3% (27 of 818 subjects). There was no fatal pneumonia in subjects receiving vilanterol or fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 50 mcg/25 mcg. There was fatal pneumonia in 1 subject receiving BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 and in 7 subjects receiving BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 (less than 1% for each treatment group). Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although BREO ELLIPTA may control COPD or asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress, a severe COPD exacerbation, or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress, a severe COPD exacerbation, or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to BREO ELLIPTA. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with BREO ELLIPTA. Lung function (FEV 1 or peak expiratory flow), beta-agonist use, and COPD or asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to BREO ELLIPTA may unmask allergic conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). During withdrawal from oral corticosteroids, some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. Inhaled fluticasone furoate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active. Effects of fluticasone furoate on the HPA axis are not observed with the therapeutic doses of BREO ELLIPTA. However, exceeding the recommended dosage or coadministration with a strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitor may result in HPA dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9), Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Because of the possibility of significant systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids in sensitive patients, patients treated with BREO ELLIPTA should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients who are sensitive to these effects. If such effects occur, BREO ELLIPTA should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids, and other treatments for management of COPD or asthma symptoms should be considered. Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of BREO ELLIPTA with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, clarithromycin, conivaptan, indinavir, itraconazole, lopinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, troleandomycin, voriconazole) because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. As with other inhaled medicines, BREO ELLIPTA can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with BREO ELLIPTA, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; BREO ELLIPTA should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. Hypersensitivity reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria may occur after administration of BREO ELLIPTA. Discontinue BREO ELLIPTA if such reactions occur. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy after inhalation of other powder medications containing lactose; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not use BREO ELLIPTA [see Contraindications (4)]. Vilanterol, like other beta 2-agonists, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, and also cardiac arrhythmias, such as supraventricular tachycardia and extrasystoles. If such effects occur, BREO ELLIPTA may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiographic changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression, although the clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. In healthy subjects, large doses of inhaled fluticasone furoate/vilanterol (4 times the recommended dose of vilanterol, representing a 12- or 10-fold higher systemic exposure than seen in subjects with COPD or asthma, respectively) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Therefore, BREO ELLIPTA, like other sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, postmenopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating BREO ELLIPTA and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and BREO ELLIPTA is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medicine to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with COPD or asthma following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. BREO ELLIPTA, like all medicines containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. Beta-adrenergic agonist medicines may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Beta-agonist medications may produce transient hyperglycemia in some patients. In clinical trials evaluating BREO ELLIPTA in subjects with COPD or asthma, there was no evidence of a treatment effect on serum glucose or potassium. Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to children and adolescents. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4).]"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=30
Page 30 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE FUROATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Veramyst"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Fluticasone furoate is cleared by extensive first-pass metabolism mediated by CYP3A4. In a drug interaction study of intranasal fluticasone furoate and the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole given as a 200-mg once-daily dose for 7 days, 6 of 20 subjects receiving fluticasone furoate and ketoconazole had measurable but low levels of fluticasone furoate compared with 1 of 20 receiving fluticasone furoate and placebo. Based on this study and the low systemic exposure, there was a 5% reduction in 24-hour serum cortisol levels with ketoconazole compared with placebo. The data from this study should be carefully interpreted because the study was conducted with ketoconazole 200 mg once daily rather than 400 mg, which is the maximum recommended dosage. Therefore, caution is required with the co-administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray and ketoconazole or other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors. Based on data with another glucocorticoid, fluticasone propionate, metabolized by CYP3A4, co-administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray with the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ritonavir is not recommended because of the risk of systemic effects secondary to increased exposure to fluticasone furoate. High exposure to corticosteroids increases the potential for systemic side effects, such as cortisol suppression. Enzyme induction and inhibition data suggest that fluticasone furoate is unlikely to significantly alter the cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism of other compounds at clinically relevant intranasal dosages. Potent inhibitors of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 may increase exposure to fluticasone furoate. Coadministration of ritonavir is not recommended. (5.5, 7) Use caution with coadministration of other potent CYP 3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole. (5.6, 7)"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, ulcerations, Candida albicans infection, impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis effects, including growth reduction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] The most common adverse reactions (>1% incidence) included headache, epistaxis, pharyngolaryngeal pain, nasal ulceration, back pain, pyrexia, and cough. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience The safety data described below reflect exposure to VERAMYST Nasal Spray in 1,563 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis in 9 controlled clinical trials of 2 to 12 weeks’ duration. The data from adults and adolescents are based upon 6 clinical trials in which 768 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis (473 females and 295 males aged 12 years and older) were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily for 2 to 6 weeks. The racial distribution of adult and adolescent patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was 82% white, 5% black, and 13% other. The data from pediatric patients are based upon 3 clinical trials in which 795 children with seasonal or perennial rhinitis (352 females and 443 males aged 2 to 11 years) were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 55 or 110 mcg once daily for 2 to 12 weeks. The racial distribution of pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was 75% white, 11% black, and 14% other. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults and Adolescents Aged 12 Years and Older Overall adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray and those receiving placebo. Less than 3% of patients in clinical trials discontinued treatment because of adverse reactions. The rate of withdrawal among patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was similar or lower than the rate among patients receiving placebo. Table 1 displays the common adverse reactions (>1% in any patient group receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray) that occurred more frequently in patients aged 12 years and older treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 1. Adverse Reactions With >1% Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials of 2 to 6 Weeks’ Duration With VERAMYST Nasal Spray in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Event Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older Vehicle Placebo (n = 774) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg Once Daily (n = 768) Headache 54 (7%) 72 (9%) Epistaxis 32 (4%) 45 (6%) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 8 (1%) 15 (2%) Nasal ulceration 3 (<1%) 11 (1%) Back pain 7 (<1%) 9 (1%) There were no differences in the incidence of adverse reactions based on gender or race. Clinical trials did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Pediatric Patients Aged 2 to 11 Years In the 3 clinical trials in pediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years, overall adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray and those receiving placebo. Table 2 displays the common adverse reactions (>3% in any patient group receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray), that occurred more frequently in patients aged 2 to 11 years treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With >3% Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials of 2 to 12 Weeks’ Duration With VERAMYST Nasal Spray in Pediatric Patients With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Event Pediatric Patients Aged 2 to <12 Years Vehicle Placebo (n = 429) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 55 mcg Once Daily (n = 369) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg Once Daily (n = 426) Headache 31 (7%) 28 (8%) 33 (8%) Nasopharyngitis 21 (5%) 20 (5%) 21 (5%) Epistaxis 19 (4%) 17 (5%) 17 (4%) Pyrexia 7 (2%) 17 (5%) 19 (4%) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 14 (3%) 16 (4%) 12 (3%) Cough 12 (3%) 12 (3%) 16 (4%) There were no differences in the incidence of adverse reactions based on gender or race. Pyrexia occurred more frequently in children aged 2 to <6 years compared with children aged 6 to <12 years. Long-Term (52-Week) Safety Trial In a 52-week, placebo-controlled, long-term safety trial, 605 patients (307 females and 298 males aged 12 years and older) with perennial allergic rhinitis were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily for 12 months and 201 were treated with placebo nasal spray. While most adverse reactions were similar in type and rate between the treatment groups, epistaxis occurred more frequently in patients who received VERAMYST Nasal Spray (123/605, 20%) than in patients who received placebo (17/201, 8%). Epistaxis tended to be more severe in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray. All 17 reports of epistaxis that occurred in patients who received placebo were of mild intensity, while 83, 39, and 1 of the total 123 epistaxis events in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray were of mild, moderate, and severe intensity, respectively. No patient experienced a nasal septal perforation during this trial. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone furoate or a combination of these factors. Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1) Development of glaucoma or posterior subcapsular cataracts. Monitor patients closely with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. (5.2) Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria, may occur after administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. (5.3) Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patients with the above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue VERAMYST Nasal Spray slowly. (5.5) Potential reduction in growth velocity in children. Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray. (5.7, 8.4) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis and Nasal Ulceration In clinical studies of 2 to 52 weeks’ duration, epistaxis and nasal ulcerations were observed more frequently and some epistaxis events were more severe in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6)]. Candida Infection Evidence of localized infections of the nose with Candida albicans was seen on nasal exams in 7 of 2,745 patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray during clinical trials and was reported as an adverse event in 3 patients. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Therefore, patients using VERAMYST Nasal Spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Instances of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients following the intranasal application of corticosteroids. There were no instances of nasal septal perforation observed in clinical studies with VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should not use VERAMYST Nasal Spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Nasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Glaucoma and cataract formation was evaluated with intraocular pressure measurements and slit lamp examinations in 1 controlled 12-month study in 806 adolescent and adult patients aged 12 years and older and in 1 controlled 12-week study in 558 children aged 2 to 11 years. The patients had perennial allergic rhinitis and were treated with either VERAMYST Nasal Spray (110 mcg once daily in adult and adolescent patients and 55 or 110 mcg once daily in pediatric patients) or placebo. Intraocular pressure remained within the normal range (<21 mmHg) in ≥98% of the patients in any treatment group in both studies. However, in the 12-month study in adolescents and adults, 12 patients, all treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily, had intraocular pressure measurements that increased above normal levels (≥21 mmHg). In the same study, 7 patients (6 treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily and 1 patient treated with placebo) had cataracts identified during the study that were not present at baseline. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions, Including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria, may occur after administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Discontinue VERAMYST Nasal Spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases or have not been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox or measles develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections; systemic viral or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for worsening of these infections. 5.5 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Effects Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal steroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of VERAMYST Nasal Spray should be discontinued slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression. Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Use of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors Co-administration with ritonavir is not recommended because of the risk of systemic effects secondary to increased exposure to fluticasone furoate. Use caution with the co-administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray and other potent cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.7 Effect on Growth Corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including VERAMYST Nasal Spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=31
Page 31 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "FLONASE"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with FLONASE Nasal Spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products, including FLONASE, with ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: •Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Effect on growth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled US clinical trials, more than 3,300 subjects with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical trials have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by subjects treated with placebo. Less than 2% of subjects in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. The safety data described below are based on 7 placebo-controlled clinical trials in subjects with allergic rhinitis. The 7 trials included 536 subjects (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) treated with FLONASE 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials which included 246 subjects (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) treated with FLONASE 200 mcg once daily over 6 months (Table 1). Also included in Table 1 are adverse reactions from 2 trials in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with FLONASE 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with FLONASE Nasal Spray with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects ≥4 Years with Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Reaction FLONASE 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % FLONASE 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Placebo (n = 758) % Headache 6.6 16.1 14.6 Pharyngitis 6.0 7.8 7.2 Epistaxis 6.0 6.9 5.4 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.4 3.2 2.6 Nausea/vomiting 4.8 2.6 2.0 Asthma symptoms 7.2 3.3 2.9 Cough 3.6 3.8 2.8 Other adverse reactions with FLONASE Nasal Spray observed with an incidence less than or equal to 3% but greater than or equal to 1% and more common than with placebo included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu‑like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, and bronchitis. In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Disorders Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including FLONASE [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. ( 5.1 ) •Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. ( 5.2 ) •Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of FLONASE Nasal Spray. Discontinue FLONASE Nasal Spray if such reactions occur. ( 5.3 ) •Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. ( 5.4 ) •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue FLONASE Nasal Spray slowly. ( 5.5 ) •Monitor growth of pediatric patients. ( 5.7 ) Epistaxis In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks’ duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in subjects treated with FLONASE Nasal Spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Nasal Ulceration Postmarketing cases of nasal ulceration have been reported in patients treated with FLONASE Nasal Spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Candida Infection In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of FLONASE Nasal Spray. Patients using FLONASE Nasal Spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients treated with FLONASE Nasal Spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasaltrauma should avoid using FLONASE Nasal Spray until healing has occurred. Use of intranasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of FLONASE Nasal Spray. Discontinue FLONASE Nasal Spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)].Rarely, immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the administration of FLONASE Nasal Spray. Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the complete prescribing information for VZIG and IG.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. When intranasal corticosteroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of FLONASE Nasal Spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression). Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long‑term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with FLONASE Nasal Spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving FLONASE Nasal Spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including FLONASE Nasal Spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=32
Page 32 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE FUROATE AND VILANTEROL TRIFENATATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Breo Ellipta"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS •Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole): Use with caution. May cause systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. (7.1) •Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of vilanterol on vascular system. (7.2) •Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. (7.3) •Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with non–potassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. (7.4) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone furoate and vilanterol, the individual components of BREO ELLIPTA, are both substrates of CYP3A4. Concomitant administration of the strong CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole increases the systemic exposure to fluticasone furoate and vilanterol. Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of BREO ELLIPTA with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, clarithromycin, conivaptan, indinavir, itraconazole, lopinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, troleandomycin, voriconazole) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants Vilanterol, like other beta2-agonists, should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic antidepressants, or drugs known to prolong the QTc interval or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the effect of adrenergic agonists on the cardiovascular system may be potentiated by these agents. Drugs that are known to prolong the QTc interval have an increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. 7.3 Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as vilanterol, a component of BREO ELLIPTA, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with COPD or asthma. Therefore, patients with COPD or asthma should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Non–Potassium-Sparing Diuretics The electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non‑potassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with non–potassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS LABA, such as vilanterol, one of the active ingredients in BREO ELLIPTA, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Data from a large placebo-controlled US trial that compared the safety of another LABA (salmeterol) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1).] Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Increased risk of pneumonia in COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Reduction in bone mineral density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. •COPD: Most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 3%) are nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and oral candidiasis. (6.1) •Asthma: Most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 2%) are nasopharyngitis, oral candidiasis, headache, influenza, upper respiratory tract infection, bronchitis, sinusitis, oropharyngeal pain, dysphonia, and cough. (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease The clinical program for BREO ELLIPTA included 7,700 subjects with COPD in two 6-month lung function trials, two 12-month exacerbation trials, and 6 other trials of shorter duration. A total of 2,034 subjects with COPD received at least 1 dose of BREO ELLIPTA 100/25, and 1,087 subjects received a higher strength of fluticasone furoate/vilanterol. The safety data described below are based on the confirmatory 6- and 12-month trials. Adverse reactions observed in the other trials were similar to those observed in the confirmatory trials. 6-Month Trials The incidence of adverse reactions associated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 in Table 1 is based on 2 placebo-controlled, 6-month clinical trials (Trials 1 and 2; n = 1,224 and n = 1,030, respectively). Of the 2,254 subjects, 70% were male and 84% were white. They had a mean age of 62 years and an average smoking history of 44 pack-years, with 54% identified as current smokers. At screening, the mean postbronchodilator percent predicted FEV1 was 48% (range: 14% to 87%), the mean postbronchodilator FEV1/forced vital capacity (FVC) ratio was 47% (range: 17% to 88%), and the mean percent reversibility was 14% (range: -41% to 152%). Subjects received 1 inhalation once daily of the following: BREO ELLIPTA 100/25, BREO ELLIPTA 200/25, fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 50 mcg/25 mcg, fluticasone furoate 100 mcg, fluticasone furoate 200 mcg, vilanterol 25 mcg, or placebo. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 with ≥3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Adverse Reaction BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 (n = 410) % Vilanterol 25 mcg (n = 408) % Fluticasone Furoate 100 mcg (n = 410) % Placebo (n = 412) % Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 9 10 8 8 Upper respiratory tract infection 7 5 4 3 Oropharyngeal candidiasis a 5 2 3 2 Nervous system disorders Headache 7 9 7 5 aIncludes oral candidiasis, oropharyngeal candidiasis, candidiasis, and fungal oropharyngitis. 12-Month Trials Long-term safety data is based on two 12-month trials (Trials 3 and 4; n = 1,633 and n = 1,622, respectively). Trials 3 and 4 included 3,255 subjects, of which 57% were male and 85% were white. They had a mean age of 64 years and an average smoking history of 46 pack-years, with 44% identified as current smokers. At screening, the mean postbronchodilator percent predicted FEV1 was 45% (range: 12% to 91%), and the mean postbronchodilator FEV1/FVC ratio was 46% (range: 17% to 81%), indicating that the subject population had moderate to very severely impaired airflow obstruction. Subjects received 1 inhalation once daily of the following: BREO ELLIPTA 100/25, BREO ELLIPTA 200/25, fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 50 mcg/25 mcg, or vilanterol 25 mcg. In addition to the reactions shown in Table 1, adverse reactions occurring in greater than or equal to 3% of the subjects treated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 (n = 806) for 12 months included back pain, pneumonia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)], bronchitis, sinusitis, cough, oropharyngeal pain, arthralgia, influenza, pharyngitis, and pyrexia. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience in Asthma BREO ELLIPTA for the treatment of asthma was studied in 18 double-blind, parallel-group, controlled trials (11 with placebo) of 4 to 76 weeks’ duration, which enrolled 9,969 subjects with asthma. BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 was studied in 2,369 subjects and BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 was studied in 956 subjects. While subjects aged 12 to 17 years were included in these trials, BREO ELLIPTA is not approved for use in this age-group [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. The safety data described below are based on two 12-week efficacy trials, one 24-week efficacy trial, and two long-term trials. 12-Week Trials Trial 1 was a 12-week trial that evaluated the efficacy of BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 in adolescent and adult subjects with asthma compared with fluticasone furoate 100 mcg and placebo. Of the 609 subjects, 58% were female and 84% were white; the mean age was 40 years. The incidence of adverse reactions associated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 is shown in Table 2. Table 2. Adverse Reactions with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 with ≥2% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects with Asthma (Trial 1) Adverse Reaction BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 (n = 201) % Fluticasone Furoate 100 mcg (n = 205) % Placebo (n = 203) % Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 10 7 7 Oral candidiasis a 2 2 0 Nervous system disorders Headache 5 4 4 Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders Oropharyngeal pain 2 2 1 Dysphonia 2 1 0 aIncludes oral candidiasis and oropharyngeal candidiasis. Trial 2 was a 12-week trial that evaluated the efficacy of BREO ELLIPTA 100/25, BREO ELLIPTA 200/25, and fluticasone furoate 100 mcg in adolescent and adult subjects with asthma. This trial did not have a placebo arm. Of the 1,039 subjects, 60% were female and 88% were white; the mean age was 46 years. The incidence of adverse reactions associated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 and BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Adverse Reactions with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 and BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 with ≥2% Incidence in Subjects with Asthma (Trial 2) Adverse Reaction BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 (n = 346) % BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 (n = 346) % Fluticasone Furoate 100 mcg (n = 347) % Nervous system disorders Headache 8 8 9 Infections and infestations Nasopharyngitis 7 6 7 Influenza 3 3 1 Upper respiratory tract infection 2 2 3 Sinusitis 2 1 <1 Bronchitis 2 <1 2 Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders Oropharyngeal pain 2 2 1 Cough 1 2 1 24-Week Trial Trial 3 was a 24-week trial that evaluated the efficacy of BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 once daily, fluticasone furoate 200 mcg once daily, and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg twice daily in adolescent and adult subjects with asthma. Of the 586 subjects, 59% were female and 84% were white; the mean age was 46 years. This trial did not have a placebo arm. In addition to the reactions shown in Tables 2 and 3, adverse reactions occurring in greater than or equal to 2% of subjects treated with BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 included viral respiratory tract infection, pharyngitis, pyrexia, and arthralgia. 12-Month Trial Long-term safety data is based on a 12-month trial that evaluated the safety of BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 once daily (n = 201), BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 once daily (n = 202), and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg twice daily (n = 100) in adolescent and adult subjects with asthma (Trial 4). Overall, 63% were female and 67% were white. The mean age was 39 years; adolescents (aged 12 to 17 years) made up 16% of the population. In addition to the reactions shown in Tables 2 and 3, adverse reactions occurring in greater than or equal to 2% of the subjects treated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 or BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 for 12 months included pyrexia, back pain, extrasystoles, upper abdominal pain, respiratory tract infection, allergic rhinitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, arthralgia, supraventricular extrasystoles, ventricular extrasystoles, acute sinusitis, and pneumonia. Exacerbation Trial In a 24- to 76-week trial, subjects received BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 (n = 1,009) or fluticasone furoate 100 mcg (n = 1,010) (Trial 5). Subjects participating in this trial had a history of one or more asthma exacerbations that required treatment with oral/systemic corticosteroids or emergency department visit or in-patient hospitalization for the treatment of asthma in the year prior to trial entry. Overall, 67% were female and 73% were white; the mean age was 42 years (adolescents aged 12 to 17 years made up 14% of the population). While subjects aged 12 to 17 years were included in this trial, BREO ELLIPTA is not approved for use in this age-group [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Asthma-related hospitalizations occurred in 10 subjects (1%) treated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 compared with 7 subjects (0.7%) treated with fluticasone furoate 100 mcg. Among subjects aged 12 to 17 years, asthma-related hospitalizations occurred in 4 subjects (2.6%) treated with BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 (n = 151) compared with 0 subjects treated with fluticasone furoate 100 mcg (n = 130). There were no asthma-related deaths or asthma-related intubations observed in this trial. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of BREO ELLIPTA. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to BREO ELLIPTA or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders Palpitations, tachycardia. Immune System Disorders Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria. Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders Muscle spasms. Nervous System Disorders Tremor. Psychiatric Disorders Nervousness."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •LABA increase the risk of asthma-related death and asthma-related hospitalizations. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. (5.1) •Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating COPD or asthma. Do not use to treat acute symptoms. (5.2) •Do not use in combination with an additional medicine containing a LABA because of risk of overdose. (5.3) • Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx may occur. Monitor patients periodically. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing after inhalation to help reduce the risk. (5.4) •Increased risk of pneumonia in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. (5.5) •Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.6) •Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from systemic corticosteroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to BREO ELLIPTA. (5.7) •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue BREO ELLIPTA slowly. (5.8) •If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs, discontinue BREO ELLIPTA and institute alternative therapy. (5.10) •Use with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. (5.12) •Assess for decrease in bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.13) •Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.14) •Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.15) •Be alert to hypokalemia and hyperglycemia. (5.16) 5.1 Asthma-Related Death LABA, such as vilanterol, one of the active ingredients in BREO ELLIPTA, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe BREO ELLIPTA for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue BREO ELLIPTA) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use BREO ELLIPTA for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A 28-week, placebo-controlled, US trial that compared the safety of another LABA (salmeterol) with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol (13/13,176 in subjects treated with salmeterol vs. 3/13,179 in subjects treated with placebo; relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). The increased risk of asthma-related death is considered a class effect of LABA, including vilanterol, one of the active ingredients in BREO ELLIPTA. No trial adequate to determine whether the rate of asthma-related death is increased in subjects treated with BREO ELLIPTA has been conducted. Data are not available to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABA. 5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes BREO ELLIPTA should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of COPD or asthma. BREO ELLIPTA has not been studied in subjects with acutely deteriorating COPD or asthma. The initiation of BREO ELLIPTA in this setting is not appropriate. COPD may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer. If BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction; the patient’s inhaled, short-acting, beta2-agonist becomes less effective; or the patient needs more short-acting beta2-agonist than usual, these may be markers of deterioration of disease. In this setting a reevaluation of the patient and the COPD treatment regimen should be undertaken at once. For COPD, increasing the daily dose of BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 is not appropriate in this situation. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of BREO ELLIPTA with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation once daily of BREO ELLIPTA. BREO ELLIPTA should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. BREO ELLIPTA has not been studied in the relief of acute symptoms and extra doses should not be used for that purpose. Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist. When beginning treatment with BREO ELLIPTA, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs and to use them only for symptomatic relief of acute respiratory symptoms. When prescribing BREO ELLIPTA, the healthcare provider should also prescribe an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist and instruct the patient on how it should be used. 5.3 Excessive Use of BREO ELLIPTA and Use with Other Long-Acting Beta2-Agonists BREO ELLIPTA should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medicines containing LABA, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using BREO ELLIPTA should not use another medicine containing a LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate, indacaterol) for any reason. 5.4 Local Effects of Inhaled Corticosteroids In clinical trials, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in subjects treated with BREO ELLIPTA. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral) antifungal therapy while treatment with BREO ELLIPTA continues, but at times therapy with BREO ELLIPTA may need to be interrupted. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing following inhalation to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. 5.5 Pneumonia An increase in the incidence of pneumonia has been observed in subjects with COPD receiving BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 in clinical trials. There was also an increased incidence of pneumonias resulting in hospitalization. In some incidences these pneumonia events were fatal. Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of such infections overlap with the symptoms of COPD exacerbations. In replicate 12-month trials in 3,255 subjects with COPD who had experienced a COPD exacerbation in the previous year, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in subjects receiving fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 50 mcg/25 mcg: 6% (48 of 820 subjects); BREO ELLIPTA 100/25: 6% (51 of 806 subjects); or BREO ELLIPTA 200/25: 7% (55 of 811 subjects) than in subjects receiving vilanterol 25 mcg: 3% (27 of 818 subjects). There was no fatal pneumonia in subjects receiving vilanterol or fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 50 mcg/25 mcg. There was fatal pneumonia in 1 subject receiving BREO ELLIPTA 100/25 and in 7 subjects receiving BREO ELLIPTA 200/25 (less than 1% for each treatment group). 5.6 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.7 Transferring Patients from Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although BREO ELLIPTA may control COPD or asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress, a severe COPD exacerbation, or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress, a severe COPD exacerbation, or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to BREO ELLIPTA. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with BREO ELLIPTA. Lung function (FEV1 or peak expiratory flow), beta-agonist use, and COPD or asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to BREO ELLIPTA may unmask allergic conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). During withdrawal from oral corticosteroids, some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.8 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Inhaled fluticasone furoate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active. Effects of fluticasone furoate on the HPA axis are not observed with the therapeutic doses of BREO ELLIPTA. However, exceeding the recommended dosage or coadministration with a strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitor may result in HPA dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9), Drug Interactions (7.1)]. Because of the possibility of significant systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids in sensitive patients, patients treated with BREO ELLIPTA should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients who are sensitive to these effects. If such effects occur, BREO ELLIPTA should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids, and other treatments for management of COPD or asthma symptoms should be considered. 5.9 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors Caution should be exercised when considering the coadministration of BREO ELLIPTA with long-term ketoconazole and other known strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, clarithromycin, conivaptan, indinavir, itraconazole, lopinavir, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, telithromycin, troleandomycin, voriconazole) because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm As with other inhaled medicines, BREO ELLIPTA can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with BREO ELLIPTA, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; BREO ELLIPTA should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. 5.11 Hypersensitivity Reactions, Including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria may occur after administration of BREO ELLIPTA. Discontinue BREO ELLIPTA if such reactions occur. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy after inhalation of other powder medications containing lactose; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not use BREO ELLIPTA [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.12 Cardiovascular Effects Vilanterol, like other beta2-agonists, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, and also cardiac arrhythmias, such as supraventricular tachycardia and extrasystoles. If such effects occur, BREO ELLIPTA may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiographic changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression, although the clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. In healthy subjects, large doses of inhaled fluticasone furoate/vilanterol (4 times the recommended dose of vilanterol, representing a 12- or 10-fold higher systemic exposure than seen in subjects with COPD or asthma, respectively) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Therefore, BREO ELLIPTA, like other sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. 5.13 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, postmenopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating BREO ELLIPTA and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and BREO ELLIPTA is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medicine to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. 5.14 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with COPD or asthma following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.15 Coexisting Conditions BREO ELLIPTA, like all medicines containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. 5.16 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta-adrenergic agonist medicines may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Beta-agonist medications may produce transient hyperglycemia in some patients. In clinical trials evaluating BREO ELLIPTA in subjects with COPD or asthma, there was no evidence of a treatment effect on serum glucose or potassium. 5.17 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to children and adolescents. [See Use in Specific Populations (8.4).]"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=33
Page 33 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Ticaspray"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products, including fluticasone propionate, with ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol.",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Effect on growth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most common adverse reactions (>3%) are headache, pharyngitis, epistaxis, nasal burning/nasal irritation, nausea/vomiting, asthma symptoms, and cough. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Apotex Corp. at 1-800-706-5575 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled US clinical trials, more than 3,300 subjects with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical trials have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by subjects treated with placebo. Less than 2% of subjects in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. The safety data described below are based on 7 placebo-controlled clinical trials in subjects with allergic rhinitis. The 7 trials included 536 subjects (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials which included 246 subjects (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 6 months (Table 1). Also included in Table 1 are adverse reactions from 2 trials in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with fluticasone propionate 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects ≥4 Years with Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Reaction Fluticasone propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Placebo (n=758)% Headache 6.6 16.1 14.6 Pharyngitis 6.0 7.8 7.2 Epistaxis 6.0 6.9 5.4 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.4 3.2 2.6 Nausea/vomiting 4.8 2.6 2.0 Asthma symptoms 7.2 3.3 2.9 Cough 3.6 3.8 2.8 Other adverse reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray observed with an incidence less than or equal to 3% but greater than or equal to 1% and more common than with placebo included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, and bronchitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Disorders Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)].",
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1) Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.2) Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur. (5.3) Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray slowly. (5.5) Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.7) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks’ duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in subjects treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Nasal Ulceration Postmarketing cases of nasal ulceration have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Candida Infection In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Patients using fluticasone propionate nasal spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should avoid using fluticasone propionate nasal spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Use of intranasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)]. Rarely, immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the complete prescribing information for VZIG and IG.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal corticosteroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of fluticasone propionate nasal spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression). Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.7 Effect on Growth Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving fluticasone propionate nasal spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate nasal spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=34
Page 34 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug interactions Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4. A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions ). During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. In a placebo-controlled, crossover study in 8 healthy volunteers, coadministration of a single dose of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg; 5 times the maximum daily intranasal dose) with multiple doses of ketoconazole (200 mg) to steady state resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, a reduction in plasma cortisol AUC, and no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Caution should be exercised when Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, is coadministered with ketoconazole and other known potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n=758) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 100 mcg Once Daily (n=167) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg Once Daily (n=782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomitting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Observed During Clinical Practice Practice: In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and Throat Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use )."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=35
Page 35 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL"
        "brand_name": [
          "ADVAIR DISKUS"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta2-agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD, without adverse drug reactions. No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with ADVAIR DISKUS. Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Use not recommended. May cause systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. (7.1) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of salmeterol on vascular system. (7.2) Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. (7.3) Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. (7.4) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and reduced plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction study in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and Cmax increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. 7.3 Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with reversible obstructive airways disease. Therefore, patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol [seeWarnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Pneumonia in patients with COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥3%) are: Asthma: upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, pharyngitis, dysphonia, oral candidiasis, bronchitis, cough, headaches, nausea and vomiting. (6.1) COPD: pneumonia, oral candidiasis, throat irritation, dysphonia, viral respiratory infections, headaches, musculoskeletal pain. (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Asthma Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older: The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR DISKUS in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled, 12-week, US clinical studies (Studies 1 and 2). A total of 705 adolescent and adult patients (349 females and 356 males) previously treated with salmeterol or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS (100/50- or 250/50-mcg doses), fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100- or 250-mcg doses), salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. The average duration of exposure was 60 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 42 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (N = 92)% ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 84)% Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (N = 90)% Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 84)% Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 180)% Placebo (N = 175)% Ear, nose, & throat Upper respiratory tractinfection 27 21 29 25 19 14 Pharyngitis 13 10 7 12 8 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 7 6 7 8 8 5 Sinusitis 4 5 6 1 3 4 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 2 2 4 <1 <1 Oral candidiasis 1 4 2 2 0 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 4 4 4 10 6 3 Bronchitis 2 8 1 2 2 2 Cough 3 6 0 0 3 2 Neurology Headaches 12 13 14 8 10 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea & vomiting 4 6 3 4 1 1 Gastrointestinal discomfort& pain 4 1 0 2 1 1 Diarrhea 4 2 2 2 1 1 Viral gastrointestinal infections 3 0 3 1 2 2 Non-site specific Candidiasis unspecified site 3 0 1 4 0 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 4 2 1 5 3 3 The types of adverse reactions and events reported in Study 3, a 28-week, non-US clinical study of 503 patients previously treated with inhaled corticosteroids who were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg used concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, were similar to those reported in Table 2. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: lymphatic signs and symptoms; muscle injuries; fractures; wounds and lacerations; contusions and hematomas; ear signs and symptoms; nasal signs and symptoms; nasal sinus disorders; keratitis and conjunctivitis; dental discomfort and pain; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; oral discomfort and pain; lower respiratory signs and symptoms; pneumonia; muscle stiffness, tightness, and rigidity; bone and cartilage disorders; sleep disorders; compressed nerve syndromes; viral infections; pain; chest symptoms; fluid retention; bacterial infections; unusual taste; viral skin infections; skin flakiness and acquired ichthyosis; disorders of sweat and sebum. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: The safety data for pediatric patients aged 4 to 11 years is based upon 1 US trial of 12 weeks’ treatment duration. A total of 203 patients (74 females and 129 males) who were receiving inhaled corticosteroids at study entry were randomized to either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily. Common adverse reactions (≥3% and greater than placebo) seen in the pediatric patients but not reported in the adult and adolescent clinical trials include: throat irritation and ear, nose, and throat infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities: Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in ≥1% of patients in clinical trials. The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the studies. In addition, there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Short-Term (6 Months to 1 Year) Trials: The short-term safety data are based on exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily in one 6-month and two 1-year clinical trials. In the 6-month trial, a total of 723 adult patients (266 females and 457 males) were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder, or placebo. The mean age of the patients was 64, and the majority (93%) was Caucasian. In this trial, 70% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS reported an adverse reaction compared with 64% on placebo. The average duration of exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was 141.3 days compared with 131.6 days for placebo. The incidence of adverse reactions in the 6-month study is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Overall Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Associated With Chronic Bronchitis Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 178)% Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 183)% Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 177)% Placebo (N = 185)% Ear, nose, & throat Candidiasis mouth/throat 10 6 3 1 Throat irritation 8 5 4 7 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 3 <1 0 Sinusitis 3 8 5 3 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 6 4 3 3 Neurology Headaches 16 11 10 12 Dizziness 4 <1 3 2 Non-site specific Fever 4 3 0 3 Malaise & fatigue 3 2 2 3 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 9 8 12 9 Muscle cramps & spasms 3 3 1 1 In the two 1-year studies, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was compared with salmeterol in 1,579 patients (863 males and 716 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (94%) was Caucasian. To be enrolled, all of the patients had to have had a COPD exacerbation in the previous 12 months. In this trial, 88% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 86% of the patients treated with salmeterol reported an adverse event. The most common events that occurred with a frequency of >5% and more frequently in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, back pain, sinusitis, dizziness, nausea, pneumonia, candidiasis, and dysphonia. Overall, 55 (7%) of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 25 (3%) of the patients treated with salmeterol developed pneumonia. The incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age, 9% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with 4% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS less than 65 years of age. In the patients treated with salmeterol, the incidence of pneumonia was the same (3%) in both age-groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Long-Term (3-Year) Trial: The safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international, 3-year study in 6,184 adult patients with COPD (4,684 males and 1,500 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (82%) was Caucasian. The distribution of adverse events was similar to that seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. In addition, pneumonia was reported in a significantly increased number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg (16% and 14%, respectively) compared with patients treated with salmeterol 50 mcg or placebo (11% and 9%, respectively). When adjusted for time on treatment, the rates of pneumonia were 84 and 88 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the groups treated with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg and with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, compared with 52 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the salmeterol and placebo groups. Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with COPD treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: syncope; ear, nose, and throat infections; ear signs and symptoms; laryngitis; nasal congestion/blockage; nasal sinus disorders; pharyngitis/throat infection; hypothyroidism; dry eyes; eye infections; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral lesions; abnormal liver function tests; bacterial infections; edema and swelling; viral infections. Laboratory Abnormalities: There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials. Specifically, no increased reporting of neutrophilia or changes in glucose or potassium was noted. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during worldwide use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR DISKUS, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders: Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), ventricular tachycardia. Endocrine Disorders: Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism. Eye Disorders: Glaucoma. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, xerostomia. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reaction (including very rare anaphylactic reaction). Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy. Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperglycemia, weight gain. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders: Arthralgia, cramps, myositis, osteoporosis. Nervous System Disorders: Paresthesia, restlessness. Psychiatric Disorders: Agitation, aggression, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Dysmenorrhea. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Chest congestion; chest tightness; dyspnea; facial and oropharyngeal edema, immediate bronchospasm; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Ecchymoses, photodermatitis. Vascular Disorders: Pallor."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Asthma-related death: LABAs increase the risk. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. (5.1) Deterioration of disease and acute episodes: Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or to treat acute symptoms. (5.2) Use with additional LABA: Do not use in combination because of risk of overdose. (5.3) Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and throat may occur. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse the mouth following inhalation. (5.4) Pneumonia: Increased risk in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. (5.5) Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis, fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; or ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.6) Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.7) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS slowly. (5.8) Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Risk of increased systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. Use not recommended with ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.9) Paradoxical bronchospasm: Discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS and institute alternative therapy if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs. (5.10) Patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders: Use with caution because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. (5.12) Decreases in bone mineral density: Assess bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.13) Effects on growth: Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.14) Glaucoma and cataracts: Close monitoring is warranted. (5.15) Metabolic effects: Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. (5.16, 5.18) Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.17) 5.1 Asthma-Related Death LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABAs. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABAs increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe ADVAIR DISKUS for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma-control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use ADVAIR DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A large, placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol. The Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) was a randomized double-blind study that enrolled LABA-naive patients with asthma to assess the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT® Inhalation Aerosol) 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy. A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of patients had been enrolled (N = 26,355), which led to premature termination of the study. The results of the interim analysis showed that patients receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events (see Table 1 and Figure 1). In the total population, a higher rate of asthma-related death occurred in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.10% versus 0.02%, relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Post-hoc subpopulation analyses were performed. In Caucasians, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than in patients treated with placebo (0.07% versus 0.01%, relative risk: 5.82 [95% CI: 0.70, 48.37]). In African Americans also, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.31% versus 0.04%, relative risk: 7.26 [95% CI: 0.89, 58.94]). Although the relative risks of asthma-related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans, the estimate of excess deaths in patients treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma-related death in African American patients (see Table 1). Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta2-agonists, the findings seen in the SMART study are considered a class effect. Post-hoc analyses in pediatric patients aged 12 to 18 years were also performed. Pediatric patients accounted for approximately 12% of patients in each treatment arm. Respiratory-related death or life-threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group (0.12% [2/1,653]) and the placebo group (0.12% [2/1,622]; relative risk: 1.0 [95% CI: 0.1, 7.2]). All-cause hospitalization, however, was increased in the salmeterol group (2% [35/1,653]) versus the placebo group (<1% [16/1,622]; relative risk: 2.1 [95% CI: 1.1, 3.7]). The data from the SMART study are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other active ingredient in ADVAIR DISKUS, or other long-term asthma control therapy mitigates the risk of asthma-related death. Table 1. Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) Salmeteroln (%a) Placebon (%a) Relative Riskb (95% ConfidenceInterval) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10,000 Patientsc (95% ConfidenceInterval) Total Populationd Salmeterol: N = 13,176 13 (0.10%) 4.37 (1.25, 15.34) 8 (3, 13) Placebo: N = 13,179 3 (0.02%) Caucasian Salmeterol: N = 9,281 6 (0.07%) 5.82 (0.70, 48.37) 6 (1, 10) Placebo: N = 9,361 1 (0.01%) African American Salmeterol: N = 2,366 7 (0.31%) 7.26 (0.89, 58.94) 27 (8, 46) Placebo: N = 2,319 1 (0.04%) aLife-table 28-week estimate, adjusted according to the patients’ actual lengths of exposure to study treatment to account for early withdrawal of patients from the study. bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma-related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group. The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma-related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28-week treatment period. cEstimate of the number of additional asthma-related deaths in patients treated with salmeterol in SMART, assuming 10,000 patients received salmeterol for a 28-week treatment period. Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma-related death multiplied by 10,000. dThe Total Population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form: Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and “Other.” In addition, the Total Population includes those patients whose ethnic origin was not reported. The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above. No asthma-related deaths occurred in the Hispanic (salmeterol n = 996, placebo n = 999), Asian (salmeterol n = 173, placebo n = 149), or “Other” (salmeterol n = 230, placebo n = 224) subpopulations. One asthma-related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported (salmeterol n = 130, placebo n = 127). Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment A 16-week clinical study performed in the United Kingdom, the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance (SNS) study, showed results similar to the SMART study. In the SNS study, the rate of asthma-related death was numerically, though not statistically significantly, greater in patients with asthma treated with salmeterol (42 mcg twice daily) than those treated with albuterol (180 mcg 4 times daily) added to usual asthma therapy. The SNS and SMART studies enrolled patients with asthma. No studies have been conducted that were primarily designed to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABAs. 5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes ADVAIR DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma or COPD. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. The initiation of ADVAIR DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily (morning and evening) of ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist, not ADVAIR DISKUS, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS, the physician must also provide the patient with an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular twice-daily (morning and evening) use of ADVAIR DISKUS. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. 5.3 Excessive Use of ADVAIR DISKUS and Use With Other Long-Acting Beta2-Agonists As with other inhaled drugs containing beta2-adrenergic agents, ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medications containing LABAs, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use an additional LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate) for any reason, including prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm (EIB) or the treatment of asthma or COPD. 5.4 Local Effects In clinical studies, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (e.g., oral antifungal) therapy while treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS. 5.5 Pneumonia Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of pneumonia and exacerbations frequently overlap. Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with COPD following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS. In 2 replicate 12-month studies of 1,579 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in patients over 65 years of age (9%) compared with the incidence in patients less than 65 years of age (4%). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] In a 3-year study of 6,184 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] 5.6 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.7 Transferring Patients From Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ADVAIR DISKUS may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to inhaled corticosteroids or ADVAIR DISKUS may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). Some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.8 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ADVAIR DISKUS in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS. Because of the possibility of systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when fluticasone propionate is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of ADVAIR DISKUS should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma symptoms. 5.9 Drug Interactions With Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm and Upper Airway Symptoms As with other inhaled medications, ADVAIR DISKUS can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ADVAIR DISKUS, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; ADVAIR DISKUS should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling, such as stridor and choking, have been reported in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and salmeterol. 5.11 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ADVAIR DISKUS, as demonstrated by cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, and bronchospasm. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not take ADVAIR DISKUS [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.12 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects Excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, and insomnia [see Overdosage (10)]. Therefore, ADVAIR DISKUS, like all products containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol (12 to 20 times the recommended dose) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. 5.13 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, post-menopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating ADVAIR DISKUS and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and ADVAIR DISKUS is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medication to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. 2-Year Fluticasone Propionate Study: A 2-year study of 160 patients (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving CFC-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 3-Year Bone Mineral Density Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 or salmeterol 50 mcg on BMD at the L1-L4 lumbar spine and total hip were evaluated in 186 patients with COPD (aged 43 to 87 years) in a 3-year double-blind study. Of those enrolled, 108 patients (72 males and 36 females) were followed for the entire 3 years. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 6-month intervals. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study regarding BMD decline in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS versus salmeterol due to the inconsistency of treatment differences across gender and between lumbar spine and total hip. In this study there were 7 non-traumatic fractures reported in 5 patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 1 non-traumatic fracture in 1 patient treated with salmeterol. None of the non-traumatic fractures occurred in the vertebrae, hip, or long bones. 3-Year Survival Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on BMD was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients (females and males aged 40 to 80 years) with COPD in the 3-year survival study. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study because of the large number of drop outs (>50%) before the end of the follow-up and the maldistribution of covariates among the treatment groups that can affect BMD. Fracture risk was estimated for the entire population of patients with COPD in the survival study (N = 6,184). The probability of a fracture over 3 years was 6.3% for ADVAIR DISKUS, 5.4% for fluticasone propionate, 5.1% for salmeterol, and 5.1% for placebo. 5.14 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR DISKUS, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4).] 5.15 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with asthma and COPD following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on development of cataracts or glaucoma was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients with COPD in the 3-year survival study. Ophthalmic examinations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions about cataracts cannot be drawn from this study because the high incidence of cataracts at baseline (61% to 71%) resulted in an inadequate number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 who were eligible and available for evaluation of cataracts at the end of the study (n = 53). The incidence of newly diagnosed glaucoma was 2% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 5% with fluticasone propionate, 0% with salmeterol, and 2% with placebo. 5.16 Eosinophilic Conditions and Churg-Strauss Syndrome In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established. 5.17 Coexisting Conditions ADVAIR DISKUS, like all medications containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. 5.18 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta-adrenergic agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical studies with ADVAIR DISKUS at recommended doses. Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=36
Page 36 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=37
Page 37 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL"
        "brand_name": [
          "ADVAIRDISKUS DISKUS"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta2-agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD, without adverse drug reactions. No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with ADVAIR DISKUS. Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and reduced plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction study in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and Cmax increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with reversible obstructive airways disease. Therefore, patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Pneumonia in patients with COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] •Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older: The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR DISKUS in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled, 12-week, US clinical studies (Studies 1 and 2). A total of 705 adult and adolescent patients (349 females and 356 males) previously treated with salmeterol or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS (100/50- or 250/50-mcg doses), fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100- or 250-mcg doses), salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. The average duration of exposure was 60 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 42 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (N = 92) % ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 84) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (N = 90) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 84) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 180) % Placebo (N = 175) % Ear, nose, & throat Upper respiratory tract infection 27 21 29 25 19 14 Pharyngitis 13 10 7 12 8 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 7 6 7 8 8 5 Sinusitis 4 5 6 1 3 4 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 2 2 4 <1 <1 Oral candidiasis 1 4 2 2 0 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 4 4 4 10 6 3 Bronchitis 2 8 1 2 2 2 Cough 3 6 0 0 3 2 Neurology Headaches 12 13 14 8 10 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea & vomiting 4 6 3 4 1 1 Gastrointestinal discomfort & pain 4 1 0 2 1 1 Diarrhea 4 2 2 2 1 1 Viral gastrointestinal infections 3 0 3 1 2 2 Non-site specific Candidiasis unspecified site 3 0 1 4 0 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 4 2 1 5 3 3 The types of adverse reactions and events reported in Study 3, a 28-week, non-US clinical study of 503 patients previously treated with inhaled corticosteroids who were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg used concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, were similar to those reported in Table 2. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: lymphatic signs and symptoms; muscle injuries; fractures; wounds and lacerations; contusions and hematomas; ear signs and symptoms; nasal signs and symptoms; nasal sinus disorders; keratitis and conjunctivitis; dental discomfort and pain; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; oral discomfort and pain; lower respiratory signs and symptoms; pneumonia; muscle stiffness, tightness, and rigidity; bone and cartilage disorders; sleep disorders; compressed nerve syndromes; viral infections; pain; chest symptoms; fluid retention; bacterial infections; unusual taste; viral skin infections; skin flakiness and acquired ichthyosis; disorders of sweat and sebum. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: The safety data for pediatric patients aged 4 to 11 years is based upon 1 US trial of 12 weeks’ treatment duration. A total of 203 patients (74 females and 129 males) who were receiving inhaled corticosteroids at study entry were randomized to either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily. Common adverse reactions (≥3% and greater than placebo) seen in the pediatric patients but not reported in the adult and adolescent clinical trials include: throat irritation and ear, nose, and throat infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities: Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in ≥1% of patients in clinical trials. The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the studies. In addition, there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium. Short-Term (6 Months to 1 Year) Trials: The short-term safety data are based on exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily in one 6-month and two 1-year clinical trials. In the 6-month trial, a total of 723 adult patients (266 females and 457 males) were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder, or placebo. The mean age of the patients was 64, and the majority (93%) was Caucasian. In this trial, 70% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS reported an adverse reaction compared with 64% on placebo. The average duration of exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was 141.3 days compared with 131.6 days for placebo. The incidence of adverse reactions in the 6-month study is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Overall Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Associated With Chronic Bronchitis Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 178) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 183) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 177) % Placebo (N = 185) % Ear, nose, & throat Candidiasis mouth/throat 10 6 3 1 Throat irritation 8 5 4 7 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 3 <1 0 Sinusitis 3 8 5 3 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 6 4 3 3 Neurology Headaches 16 11 10 12 Dizziness 4 <1 3 2 Non-site specific Fever 4 3 0 3 Malaise & fatigue 3 2 2 3 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 9 8 12 9 Muscle cramps & spasms 3 3 1 1 In the two 1-year studies, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was compared with salmeterol in 1,579 patients (863 males and 716 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (94%) was Caucasian. To be enrolled, all of the patients had to have had a COPD exacerbation in the previous 12 months. In this trial, 88% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 86% of the patients treated with salmeterol reported an adverse event. The most common events that occurred with a frequency of >5% and more frequently in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, back pain, sinusitis, dizziness, nausea, pneumonia, candidiasis, and dysphonia. Overall, 55 (7%) of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 25 (3%) of the patients treated with salmeterol developed pneumonia. The incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age, 9% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with 4% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS less than 65 years of age. In the patients treated with salmeterol, the incidence of pneumonia was the same (3%) in both age-groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Long-Term (3-Year) Trial: The safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international, 3-year study in 6,184 adult patients with COPD (4,684 males and 1,500 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (82%) was Caucasian. The distribution of adverse events was similar to that seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. In addition, pneumonia was reported in a significantly increased number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg (16% and 14%, respectively) compared with patients treated with salmeterol 50 mcg or placebo (11% and 9%, respectively). When adjusted for time on treatment, the rates of pneumonia were 84 and 88 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the groups treated with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg and with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, compared with 52 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the salmeterol and placebo groups. Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with COPD treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: syncope; ear, nose, and throat infections; ear signs and symptoms; laryngitis; nasal congestion/blockage; nasal sinus disorders; pharyngitis/throat infection; hypothyroidism; dry eyes; eye infections; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral lesions; abnormal liver function tests; bacterial infections; edema and swelling; viral infections. Laboratory Abnormalities: There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials. Specifically, no increased reporting of neutrophilia or changes in glucose or potassium was noted. In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during worldwide use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR DISKUS, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders: Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), ventricular tachycardia. Endocrine Disorders: Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism. Eye Disorders: Glaucoma. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, xerostomia. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reaction (including very rare anaphylactic reaction). Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy. Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperglycemia, weight gain. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders: Arthralgia, cramps, myositis, osteoporosis. Nervous System Disorders: Paresthesia, restlessness. Psychiatric Disorders: Agitation, aggression, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Dysmenorrhea. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Chest congestion; chest tightness; dyspnea; facial and oropharyngeal edema, immediate bronchospasm; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Ecchymoses, photodermatitis. Vascular Disorders: Pallor."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Asthma-related death: LABAs increase the risk. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. (5.1)•Deterioration of disease and acute episodes: Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or to treat acute symptoms. (5.2)•Use with additional LABA: Do not use in combination because of risk of overdose. (5.3)•Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and throat may occur. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse the mouth following inhalation. (5.4)•Pneumonia: Increased risk in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. (5.5)•Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis, fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.6)•Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.7)•Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS slowly. (5.8)•Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Risk of increased systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. Use not recommended with ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.9)•Paradoxical bronchospasm: Discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS and institute alternative therapy if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs. (5.10)•Patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders: Use with caution because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. (5.12)•Decreases in bone mineral density: Assess bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.13)•Effects on growth: Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.14)•Glaucoma and cataracts: Close monitoring is warranted. (5.15)•Metabolic effects: Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. (5.16, 5.18)•Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.17) LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABAs. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABAs increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe ADVAIR DISKUS for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use ADVAIR DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol. The Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) was a randomized double-blind study that enrolled LABA-naive patients with asthma to assess the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT® Inhalation Aerosol) 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy. A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of patients had been enrolled (N = 26,355), which led to premature termination of the study. The results of the interim analysis showed that patients receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events (see Table 1 and Figure 1). In the total population, a higher rate of asthma-related death occurred in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.10% versus 0.02%, relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Post-hoc subpopulation analyses were performed. In Caucasians, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than in patients treated with placebo (0.07% versus 0.01%, relative risk: 5.82 [95% CI: 0.70, 48.37]). In African Americans also, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.31% versus 0.04%, relative risk: 7.26 [95% CI: 0.89, 58.94]). Although the relative risks of asthma-related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans, the estimate of excess deaths in patients treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma-related death in African American patients (see Table 1). Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta2-agonists, the findings seen in the SMART study are considered a class effect. Post-hoc analyses in pediatric patients aged 12 to 18 years were also performed. Pediatric patients accounted for approximately 12% of patients in each treatment arm. Respiratory-related death or life-threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group (0.12% [2/1,653]) and the placebo group (0.12% [2/1,622]; relative risk: 1.0 [95% CI: 0.1, 7.2]). All-cause hospitalization, however, was increased in the salmeterol group (2% [35/1,653]) versus the placebo group (<1% [16/1,622]; relative risk: 2.1 [95% CI: 1.1, 3.7]). The data from the SMART study are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other active ingredient in ADVAIR DISKUS, or other long-term asthma control therapy mitigates the risk of asthma-related death. Table 1. Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) Salmeterol n (%a) Placebo n (%a) Relative Riskb (95% Confidence Interval) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10,000 Patientsc (95% Confidence Interval) Total Populationd Salmeterol: N = 13,176 13 (0.10%) 4.37 (1.25, 15.34) 8 (3, 13) Placebo: N = 13,179 3 (0.02%) Caucasian Salmeterol: N = 9,281 6 (0.07%) 5.82 (0.70, 48.37) 6 (1, 10) Placebo: N = 9,361 1 (0.01%) African American Salmeterol: N = 2,366 7 (0.31%) 7.26 (0.89, 58.94) 27 (8, 46) Placebo: N = 2,319 1 (0.04%) aLife-table 28-week estimate, adjusted according to the patients’ actual lengths of exposure to study treatment to account for early withdrawal of patients from the study. bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma-related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group. The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma-related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28-week treatment period. cEstimate of the number of additional asthma-related deaths in patients treated with salmeterol in SMART, assuming 10,000 patients received salmeterol for a 28-week treatment period. Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma-related death multiplied by 10,000. dThe Total Population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form: Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and “Other.” In addition, the Total Population includes those patients whose ethnic origin was not reported. The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above. No asthma-related deaths occurred in the Hispanic (salmeterol n = 996, placebo n = 999), Asian (salmeterol n = 173, placebo n = 149), or “Other” (salmeterol n = 230, placebo n = 224) subpopulations. One asthma-related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported (salmeterol n = 130, placebo n = 127). Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment A 16-week clinical study performed in the United Kingdom, the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance (SNS) study, showed results similar to the SMART study. In the SNS study, the rate of asthma-related death was numerically, though not statistically significantly, greater in patients with asthma treated with salmeterol (42 mcg twice daily) than those treated with albuterol (180 mcg 4 times daily) added to usual asthma therapy. The SNS and SMART studies enrolled patients with asthma. No studies have been conducted that were primarily designed to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABAs. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma or COPD. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. The initiation of ADVAIR DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily (morning and evening) of ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist, not ADVAIR DISKUS, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS, the physician must also provide the patient with an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular twice-daily (morning and evening) use of ADVAIR DISKUS. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. As with other inhaled drugs containing beta2-adrenergic agents, ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medications containing LABAs, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use an additional LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate) for any reason, including prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm (EIB) or the treatment of asthma or COPD. In clinical studies, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral antifungal) therapy while treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS. Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of pneumonia and exacerbations frequently overlap. Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with COPD following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS. In 2 replicate 12-month studies of 1,579 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in patients over 65 years of age (9%) compared with the incidence in patients less than 65 years of age (4%). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] In a 3-year study of 6,184 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ADVAIR DISKUS may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to inhaled corticosteroids or ADVAIR DISKUS may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). Some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. Fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ADVAIR DISKUS in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS. Because of the possibility of systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when fluticasone propionate is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of ADVAIR DISKUS should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma symptoms. The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. As with other inhaled medications, ADVAIR DISKUS can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ADVAIR DISKUS, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; ADVAIR DISKUS should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling, such as stridor and choking, have been reported in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and salmeterol. Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ADVAIR DISKUS, as demonstrated by cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, and bronchospasm. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not take ADVAIR DISKUS [see Contraindications (4)]. Excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, and insomnia [see Overdosage (10)]. Therefore, ADVAIR DISKUS, like all products containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram (ECG) changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol (12 to 20 times the recommended dose) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, post-menopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating ADVAIR DISKUS and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and ADVAIR DISKUS is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medication to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. 2-Year Fluticasone Propionate Study: A 2-year study of 160 patients (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving CFC-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 3-Year Bone Mineral Density Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 or salmeterol 50 mcg on BMD at the L1-L4 lumbar spine and total hip were evaluated in 186 patients with COPD (aged 43 to 87 years) in a 3-year double-blind study. Of those enrolled, 108 patients (72 males and 36 females) were followed for the entire 3 years. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 6-month intervals. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study regarding BMD decline in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS versus salmeterol due to the inconsistency of treatment differences across gender and between lumbar spine and total hip. In this study there were 7 non-traumatic fractures reported in 5 patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 1 non-traumatic fracture in 1 patient treated with salmeterol. None of the non-traumatic fractures occurred in the vertebrae, hip, or long bones. 3-Year Survival Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on BMD was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients (females and males aged 40 to 80 years) with COPD in the 3-year survival study. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study because of the large number of drop outs (>50%) before the end of the follow-up and the maldistribution of covariates among the treatment groups that can affect BMD. Fracture risk was estimated for the entire population of patients with COPD in the survival study (N = 6,184). The probability of a fracture over 3 years was 6.3% for ADVAIR DISKUS, 5.4% for fluticasone propionate, 5.1% for salmeterol, and 5.1% for placebo. Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR DISKUS, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4).] Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with asthma and COPD following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on development of cataracts or glaucoma was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients with COPD in the 3-year survival study. Ophthalmic examinations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions about cataracts cannot be drawn from this study because the high incidence of cataracts at baseline (61% to 71%) resulted in an inadequate number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 who were eligible and available for evaluation of cataracts at the end of the study (n = 53). The incidence of newly diagnosed glaucoma was 2% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 5% with fluticasone propionate, 0% with salmeterol, and 2% with placebo. In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established. ADVAIR DISKUS, like all medications containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. Beta-adrenergic agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical studies with ADVAIR DISKUS at recommended doses. MM1"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=38
Page 38 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "FLONASE"
 
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with FLONASE Nasal Spray. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking FLONASE Nasal Spray in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with FLONASE Nasal Spray 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with FLONASE Nasal Spray 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with FLONASE Nasal Spray 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With FLONASE Nasal Spray in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n = 758) % FLONASE 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % FLONASE 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomiting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General: Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and Throat: Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye: Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including FLONASE (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use)."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=39
Page 39 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug interactions Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4. A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions ). During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. In a placebo-controlled, crossover study in 8 healthy volunteers, coadministration of a single dose of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg; 5 times the maximum daily intranasal dose) with multiple doses of ketoconazole (200 mg) to steady state resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, a reduction in plasma cortisol AUC, and no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Caution should be exercised when Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, is coadministered with ketoconazole and other known potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n=758) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 100 mcg Once Daily (n=167) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg Once Daily (n=782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomitting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Observed During Clinical Practice Practice: In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and Throat Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use )."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=40
Page 40 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE"
        "brand_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE"
 
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS SECTION In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months' duration with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n = 758) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone Propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomiting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Observed During Clinical Practice In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General: Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and Throat: Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye: Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use)."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=41
Page 41 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "FLOVENT HFA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Use with strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors such as ritonavir and ketoconazole is not recommended. Systemic corticosteroid effects may occur. (7.1) 7.1 Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with FLOVENT HFA is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate concentration, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ketoconazole is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Reduction in bone mineral density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >3%) include upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, throat irritation, sinusitis, dysphonia, candidiasis, cough, bronchitis, and headache. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The incidence of common adverse reactions in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled US clinical trials in which 812 adult and adolescent patients (457 females and 355 males) previously treated with as-needed bronchodilators and/or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily for up to 12 weeks with 2 inhalations of FLOVENT HFA 44 mcg Inhalation Aerosol, FLOVENT HFA 110 mcg Inhalation Aerosol, FLOVENT HFA 220 mcg Inhalation Aerosol (dosages of 88, 220, or 440 mcg twice daily), or placebo. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With >3% Incidence in US Controlled Clinical Trials With FLOVENT HFA in Patients Aged 12 Years and Older With Asthma Previously Receiving Bronchodilators and/or Inhaled Corticosteroids Adverse Event FLOVENT HFA 88 mcg Twice Daily (n = 203)% FLOVENT HFA 220 mcg Twice Daily (n = 204)% FLOVENT HFA 440 mcg Twice Daily (n = 202)% Placebo (n = 203)% Ear, nose, and throat Upper respiratory tract infection 18 16 16 14 Throat irritation 8 8 10 5 Upper respiratory inflammation 2 5 5 1 Sinusitis/sinus infection 6 7 4 3 Hoarseness/dysphonia 2 3 6 <1 Gastrointestinal Candidiasis mouth/throat & non-site specific 4 2 5 <1 Lower respiratory Cough 4 6 4 5 Bronchitis 2 2 6 5 Neurological Headache 11 7 5 6 Table 2 includes all events (whether considered drug-related or nondrug-related by the investigator) that occurred at a rate of over 3% in any of the groups treated with FLOVENT HFA and were more common than in the placebo group. Less than 2% of patients discontinued from the studies because of adverse reactions. The average duration of exposure was 73 to 76 days in the active treatment groups compared with 60 days in the placebo group. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with FLOVENT HFA compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: rhinitis, rhinorrhea/post-nasal drip, nasal sinus disorders, laryngitis, diarrhea, viral gastrointestinal infections, dyspeptic symptoms, gastrointestinal discomfort and pain, hyposalivation, musculoskeletal pain, muscle pain, muscle stiffness/tightness/rigidity, dizziness, migraines, fever, viral infections, pain, chest symptoms, viral skin infections, muscle injuries, soft tissue injuries, urinary infections. Fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol (440 or 880 mcg twice daily) was administered for 16 weeks to 168 patients with asthma requiring oral corticosteroids (Study 3). Adverse reactions not included above, but reported by more than 3 patients in either group treated with FLOVENT HFA and more commonly than in the placebo group included nausea and vomiting, arthralgia and articular rheumatism, and malaise and fatigue. In 2 long-term studies (26 and 52 weeks), the pattern of adverse reactions in patients treated with FLOVENT HFA at dosages up to 440 mcg twice daily was similar to that observed in the 12-week studies. There were no new and/or unexpected adverse reactions with long-term treatment. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: FLOVENT HFA has been evaluated for safety in 56 pediatric patients who received 88 mcg twice daily for 4 weeks. Types of adverse reactions in these pediatric patients were generally similar to those observed in adults and adolescents. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. Ear, Nose, and Throat: Aphonia, facial and oropharyngeal edema, and throat soreness and irritation. Endocrine and Metabolic: Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hyperglycemia, osteoporosis, and weight gain. Eye: Cataracts. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Dental caries and tooth discoloration. Psychiatry: Agitation, aggression, anxiety, depression, and restlessness. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reactions, including urticaria, anaphylaxis, rash, and angioedema and bronchospasm, have been reported. Respiratory: Asthma exacerbation, chest tightness, cough, dyspnea, immediate and delayed bronchospasm, paradoxical bronchospasm, pneumonia, and wheeze. Skin: Contusions, cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions, ecchymoses, and pruritus. Eosinophilic Conditions: In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions, with some patients presenting with clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)]."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse mouth following inhalation. (5.1) Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patients with above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.3) Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to FLOVENT HFA. (5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue FLOVENT HFA slowly. (5.5) Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, may occur after administration of FLOVENT HFA. Discontinue FLOVENT HFA if such reactions occur. (4, 5.6) Decreases in bone mineral density: Assess bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter in patients at risk. (5.7) Effect on growth: Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.8) Glaucoma and cataracts: Close monitoring is warranted. (5.9) 5.1 Local Effects In clinical studies, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in patients treated with FLOVENT HFA. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral antifungal) therapy while treatment with FLOVENT HFA continues, but at times therapy with FLOVENT HFA may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of FLOVENT HFA [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.2 Acute Asthma Episodes FLOVENT HFA is not to be regarded as a bronchodilator and is not indicated for rapid relief of bronchospasm. Patients should be instructed to contact their physicians immediately when episodes of asthma that are not responsive to bronchodilators occur during the course of treatment with FLOVENT HFA. During such episodes, patients may require therapy with oral corticosteroids. 5.3 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Because of the potential for worsening infections, inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infection of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.4 Transferring Patients From Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to FLOVENT HFA. In a clinical trial of 168 patients, prednisone reduction was successfully accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose on a weekly basis following initiation of treatment with FLOVENT HFA. Successive reduction of prednisone dose was allowed only when lung function, symptoms, and as-needed short-acting beta-agonist use were better than or comparable to that seen before initiation of prednisone dose reduction. Lung function (forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [AM PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although inhaled corticosteroids may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses they supply less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid (cortisol) systemically and do NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to FLOVENT HFA may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). Some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression, despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function). 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Fluticasone propionate will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of FLOVENT HFA in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing FLOVENT HFA. Because of the possibility of systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with FLOVENT HFA should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when FLOVENT HFA is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of FLOVENT HFA should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma. 5.6 Hypersensitivity Reactions, Including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, and bronchospasm, may occur after administration of FLOVENT HFA [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.7 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term outcomes is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, postmenopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids), should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. 5.8 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving FLOVENT HFA routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including FLOVENT HFA, titrate each patient’s dosage to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. 5.9 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm As with other inhaled medications, bronchospasm may occur with an immediate increase in wheezing after dosing. If bronchospasm occurs following dosing with FLOVENT HFA, it should be treated immediately with a fast-acting inhaled bronchodilator. Treatment with FLOVENT HFA should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. 5.11 Drug Interactions With Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with FLOVENT HFA is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.12 Eosinophilic Conditions and Churg-Strauss Syndrome In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=42
Page 42 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n=758) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 100 mcg Once Daily (n=167) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg Once Daily (n=782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomitting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Practice: In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use )."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=43
Page 43 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL"
        "brand_name": [
          "ADVAIR DISKUS"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta2-agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD, without adverse drug reactions. No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with ADVAIR DISKUS. Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Use not recommended. May cause systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. (7.1) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of salmeterol on vascular system. (7.2) Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. (7.3) Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. (7.4) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and reduced plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction study in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and Cmax increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. 7.3 Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with reversible obstructive airways disease. Therefore, patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol [seeWarnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Pneumonia in patients with COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥3%) are: Asthma: upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, pharyngitis, dysphonia, oral candidiasis, bronchitis, cough, headaches, nausea and vomiting. (6.1) COPD: pneumonia, oral candidiasis, throat irritation, dysphonia, viral respiratory infections, headaches, musculoskeletal pain. (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Asthma Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older: The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR DISKUS in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled, 12-week, US clinical studies (Studies 1 and 2). A total of 705 adolescent and adult patients (349 females and 356 males) previously treated with salmeterol or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS (100/50- or 250/50-mcg doses), fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100- or 250-mcg doses), salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. The average duration of exposure was 60 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 42 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (N = 92)% ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 84)% Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (N = 90)% Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 84)% Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 180)% Placebo (N = 175)% Ear, nose, & throat Upper respiratory tractinfection 27 21 29 25 19 14 Pharyngitis 13 10 7 12 8 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 7 6 7 8 8 5 Sinusitis 4 5 6 1 3 4 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 2 2 4 <1 <1 Oral candidiasis 1 4 2 2 0 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 4 4 4 10 6 3 Bronchitis 2 8 1 2 2 2 Cough 3 6 0 0 3 2 Neurology Headaches 12 13 14 8 10 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea & vomiting 4 6 3 4 1 1 Gastrointestinal discomfort& pain 4 1 0 2 1 1 Diarrhea 4 2 2 2 1 1 Viral gastrointestinal infections 3 0 3 1 2 2 Non-site specific Candidiasis unspecified site 3 0 1 4 0 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 4 2 1 5 3 3 The types of adverse reactions and events reported in Study 3, a 28-week, non-US clinical study of 503 patients previously treated with inhaled corticosteroids who were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg used concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, were similar to those reported in Table 2. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: lymphatic signs and symptoms; muscle injuries; fractures; wounds and lacerations; contusions and hematomas; ear signs and symptoms; nasal signs and symptoms; nasal sinus disorders; keratitis and conjunctivitis; dental discomfort and pain; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; oral discomfort and pain; lower respiratory signs and symptoms; pneumonia; muscle stiffness, tightness, and rigidity; bone and cartilage disorders; sleep disorders; compressed nerve syndromes; viral infections; pain; chest symptoms; fluid retention; bacterial infections; unusual taste; viral skin infections; skin flakiness and acquired ichthyosis; disorders of sweat and sebum. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: The safety data for pediatric patients aged 4 to 11 years is based upon 1 US trial of 12 weeks’ treatment duration. A total of 203 patients (74 females and 129 males) who were receiving inhaled corticosteroids at study entry were randomized to either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily. Common adverse reactions (≥3% and greater than placebo) seen in the pediatric patients but not reported in the adult and adolescent clinical trials include: throat irritation and ear, nose, and throat infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities: Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in ≥1% of patients in clinical trials. The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the studies. In addition, there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Short-Term (6 Months to 1 Year) Trials: The short-term safety data are based on exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily in one 6-month and two 1-year clinical trials. In the 6-month trial, a total of 723 adult patients (266 females and 457 males) were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder, or placebo. The mean age of the patients was 64, and the majority (93%) was Caucasian. In this trial, 70% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS reported an adverse reaction compared with 64% on placebo. The average duration of exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was 141.3 days compared with 131.6 days for placebo. The incidence of adverse reactions in the 6-month study is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Overall Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Associated With Chronic Bronchitis Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 178)% Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 183)% Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 177)% Placebo (N = 185)% Ear, nose, & throat Candidiasis mouth/throat 10 6 3 1 Throat irritation 8 5 4 7 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 3 <1 0 Sinusitis 3 8 5 3 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 6 4 3 3 Neurology Headaches 16 11 10 12 Dizziness 4 <1 3 2 Non-site specific Fever 4 3 0 3 Malaise & fatigue 3 2 2 3 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 9 8 12 9 Muscle cramps & spasms 3 3 1 1 In the two 1-year studies, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was compared with salmeterol in 1,579 patients (863 males and 716 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (94%) was Caucasian. To be enrolled, all of the patients had to have had a COPD exacerbation in the previous 12 months. In this trial, 88% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 86% of the patients treated with salmeterol reported an adverse event. The most common events that occurred with a frequency of >5% and more frequently in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, back pain, sinusitis, dizziness, nausea, pneumonia, candidiasis, and dysphonia. Overall, 55 (7%) of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 25 (3%) of the patients treated with salmeterol developed pneumonia. The incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age, 9% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with 4% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS less than 65 years of age. In the patients treated with salmeterol, the incidence of pneumonia was the same (3%) in both age-groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Long-Term (3-Year) Trial: The safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international, 3-year study in 6,184 adult patients with COPD (4,684 males and 1,500 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (82%) was Caucasian. The distribution of adverse events was similar to that seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. In addition, pneumonia was reported in a significantly increased number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg (16% and 14%, respectively) compared with patients treated with salmeterol 50 mcg or placebo (11% and 9%, respectively). When adjusted for time on treatment, the rates of pneumonia were 84 and 88 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the groups treated with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg and with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, compared with 52 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the salmeterol and placebo groups. Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with COPD treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: syncope; ear, nose, and throat infections; ear signs and symptoms; laryngitis; nasal congestion/blockage; nasal sinus disorders; pharyngitis/throat infection; hypothyroidism; dry eyes; eye infections; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral lesions; abnormal liver function tests; bacterial infections; edema and swelling; viral infections. Laboratory Abnormalities: There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials. Specifically, no increased reporting of neutrophilia or changes in glucose or potassium was noted. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during worldwide use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR DISKUS, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders: Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), ventricular tachycardia. Endocrine Disorders: Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism. Eye Disorders: Glaucoma. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, xerostomia. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reaction (including very rare anaphylactic reaction). Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy. Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperglycemia, weight gain. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders: Arthralgia, cramps, myositis, osteoporosis. Nervous System Disorders: Paresthesia, restlessness. Psychiatric Disorders: Agitation, aggression, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Dysmenorrhea. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Chest congestion; chest tightness; dyspnea; facial and oropharyngeal edema, immediate bronchospasm; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Ecchymoses, photodermatitis. Vascular Disorders: Pallor."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Asthma-related death: LABAs increase the risk. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. (5.1) Deterioration of disease and acute episodes: Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or to treat acute symptoms. (5.2) Use with additional LABA: Do not use in combination because of risk of overdose. (5.3) Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and throat may occur. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse the mouth following inhalation. (5.4) Pneumonia: Increased risk in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. (5.5) Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis, fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; or ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.6) Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.7) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS slowly. (5.8) Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Risk of increased systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. Use not recommended with ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.9) Paradoxical bronchospasm: Discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS and institute alternative therapy if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs. (5.10) Patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders: Use with caution because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. (5.12) Decreases in bone mineral density: Assess bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.13) Effects on growth: Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.14) Glaucoma and cataracts: Close monitoring is warranted. (5.15) Metabolic effects: Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. (5.16, 5.18) Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.17) 5.1 Asthma-Related Death LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABAs. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABAs increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe ADVAIR DISKUS for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma-control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use ADVAIR DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A large, placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol. The Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) was a randomized double-blind study that enrolled LABA-naive patients with asthma to assess the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT® Inhalation Aerosol) 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy. A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of patients had been enrolled (N = 26,355), which led to premature termination of the study. The results of the interim analysis showed that patients receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events (see Table 1 and Figure 1). In the total population, a higher rate of asthma-related death occurred in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.10% versus 0.02%, relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Post-hoc subpopulation analyses were performed. In Caucasians, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than in patients treated with placebo (0.07% versus 0.01%, relative risk: 5.82 [95% CI: 0.70, 48.37]). In African Americans also, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.31% versus 0.04%, relative risk: 7.26 [95% CI: 0.89, 58.94]). Although the relative risks of asthma-related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans, the estimate of excess deaths in patients treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma-related death in African American patients (see Table 1). Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta2-agonists, the findings seen in the SMART study are considered a class effect. Post-hoc analyses in pediatric patients aged 12 to 18 years were also performed. Pediatric patients accounted for approximately 12% of patients in each treatment arm. Respiratory-related death or life-threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group (0.12% [2/1,653]) and the placebo group (0.12% [2/1,622]; relative risk: 1.0 [95% CI: 0.1, 7.2]). All-cause hospitalization, however, was increased in the salmeterol group (2% [35/1,653]) versus the placebo group (<1% [16/1,622]; relative risk: 2.1 [95% CI: 1.1, 3.7]). The data from the SMART study are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other active ingredient in ADVAIR DISKUS, or other long-term asthma control therapy mitigates the risk of asthma-related death. Table 1. Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) Salmeteroln (%a) Placebon (%a) Relative Riskb (95% ConfidenceInterval) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10,000 Patientsc (95% ConfidenceInterval) Total Populationd Salmeterol: N = 13,176 13 (0.10%) 4.37 (1.25, 15.34) 8 (3, 13) Placebo: N = 13,179 3 (0.02%) Caucasian Salmeterol: N = 9,281 6 (0.07%) 5.82 (0.70, 48.37) 6 (1, 10) Placebo: N = 9,361 1 (0.01%) African American Salmeterol: N = 2,366 7 (0.31%) 7.26 (0.89, 58.94) 27 (8, 46) Placebo: N = 2,319 1 (0.04%) aLife-table 28-week estimate, adjusted according to the patients’ actual lengths of exposure to study treatment to account for early withdrawal of patients from the study. bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma-related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group. The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma-related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28-week treatment period. cEstimate of the number of additional asthma-related deaths in patients treated with salmeterol in SMART, assuming 10,000 patients received salmeterol for a 28-week treatment period. Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma-related death multiplied by 10,000. dThe Total Population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form: Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and “Other.” In addition, the Total Population includes those patients whose ethnic origin was not reported. The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above. No asthma-related deaths occurred in the Hispanic (salmeterol n = 996, placebo n = 999), Asian (salmeterol n = 173, placebo n = 149), or “Other” (salmeterol n = 230, placebo n = 224) subpopulations. One asthma-related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported (salmeterol n = 130, placebo n = 127). Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment A 16-week clinical study performed in the United Kingdom, the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance (SNS) study, showed results similar to the SMART study. In the SNS study, the rate of asthma-related death was numerically, though not statistically significantly, greater in patients with asthma treated with salmeterol (42 mcg twice daily) than those treated with albuterol (180 mcg 4 times daily) added to usual asthma therapy. The SNS and SMART studies enrolled patients with asthma. No studies have been conducted that were primarily designed to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABAs. 5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes ADVAIR DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma or COPD. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. The initiation of ADVAIR DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily (morning and evening) of ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist, not ADVAIR DISKUS, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS, the physician must also provide the patient with an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular twice-daily (morning and evening) use of ADVAIR DISKUS. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. 5.3 Excessive Use of ADVAIR DISKUS and Use With Other Long-Acting Beta2-Agonists As with other inhaled drugs containing beta2-adrenergic agents, ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medications containing LABAs, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use an additional LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate) for any reason, including prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm (EIB) or the treatment of asthma or COPD. 5.4 Local Effects In clinical studies, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (e.g., oral antifungal) therapy while treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS. 5.5 Pneumonia Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of pneumonia and exacerbations frequently overlap. Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with COPD following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS. In 2 replicate 12-month studies of 1,579 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in patients over 65 years of age (9%) compared with the incidence in patients less than 65 years of age (4%). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] In a 3-year study of 6,184 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] 5.6 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.7 Transferring Patients From Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ADVAIR DISKUS may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to inhaled corticosteroids or ADVAIR DISKUS may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). Some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.8 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ADVAIR DISKUS in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS. Because of the possibility of systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when fluticasone propionate is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of ADVAIR DISKUS should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma symptoms. 5.9 Drug Interactions With Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm and Upper Airway Symptoms As with other inhaled medications, ADVAIR DISKUS can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ADVAIR DISKUS, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; ADVAIR DISKUS should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling, such as stridor and choking, have been reported in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and salmeterol. 5.11 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ADVAIR DISKUS, as demonstrated by cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, and bronchospasm. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not take ADVAIR DISKUS [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.12 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects Excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, and insomnia [see Overdosage (10)]. Therefore, ADVAIR DISKUS, like all products containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol (12 to 20 times the recommended dose) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. 5.13 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, post-menopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating ADVAIR DISKUS and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and ADVAIR DISKUS is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medication to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. 2-Year Fluticasone Propionate Study: A 2-year study of 160 patients (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving CFC-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 3-Year Bone Mineral Density Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 or salmeterol 50 mcg on BMD at the L1-L4 lumbar spine and total hip were evaluated in 186 patients with COPD (aged 43 to 87 years) in a 3-year double-blind study. Of those enrolled, 108 patients (72 males and 36 females) were followed for the entire 3 years. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 6-month intervals. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study regarding BMD decline in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS versus salmeterol due to the inconsistency of treatment differences across gender and between lumbar spine and total hip. In this study there were 7 non-traumatic fractures reported in 5 patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 1 non-traumatic fracture in 1 patient treated with salmeterol. None of the non-traumatic fractures occurred in the vertebrae, hip, or long bones. 3-Year Survival Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on BMD was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients (females and males aged 40 to 80 years) with COPD in the 3-year survival study. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study because of the large number of drop outs (>50%) before the end of the follow-up and the maldistribution of covariates among the treatment groups that can affect BMD. Fracture risk was estimated for the entire population of patients with COPD in the survival study (N = 6,184). The probability of a fracture over 3 years was 6.3% for ADVAIR DISKUS, 5.4% for fluticasone propionate, 5.1% for salmeterol, and 5.1% for placebo. 5.14 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR DISKUS, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4).] 5.15 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with asthma and COPD following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on development of cataracts or glaucoma was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients with COPD in the 3-year survival study. Ophthalmic examinations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions about cataracts cannot be drawn from this study because the high incidence of cataracts at baseline (61% to 71%) resulted in an inadequate number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 who were eligible and available for evaluation of cataracts at the end of the study (n = 53). The incidence of newly diagnosed glaucoma was 2% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 5% with fluticasone propionate, 0% with salmeterol, and 2% with placebo. 5.16 Eosinophilic Conditions and Churg-Strauss Syndrome In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established. 5.17 Coexisting Conditions ADVAIR DISKUS, like all medications containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. 5.18 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta-adrenergic agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical studies with ADVAIR DISKUS at recommended doses. Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=44
Page 44 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "FLOVENT HFA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with FLOVENT HFA is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Reduction in bone mineral density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] •Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than 3%) are upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, throat irritation, sinusitis, dysphonia, candidiasis, cough, bronchitis, and headache. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The incidence of common adverse reactions in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled US clinical trials in which 812 adult and adolescent subjects (457 females and 355 males) previously treated with as-needed bronchodilators and/or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily for up to 12 weeks with 2 inhalations of FLOVENT HFA 44 mcg Inhalation Aerosol, FLOVENT HFA 110 mcg Inhalation Aerosol, FLOVENT HFA 220 mcg Inhalation Aerosol (dosages of 88, 220, or 440 mcg twice daily), or placebo. Table 2. Adverse Reactions with FLOVENT HFA with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects Aged 12 Years and Older with Asthma Adverse Event FLOVENT HFA 88 mcg Twice Daily (n = 203) % FLOVENT HFA 220 mcg Twice Daily (n = 204) % FLOVENT HFA 440 mcg Twice Daily (n = 202) % Placebo (n = 203) % Ear, nose, and throat Upper respiratory tract infection 18 16 16 14 Throat irritation 8 8 10 5 Upper respiratory inflammation 2 5 5 1 Sinusitis/sinus infection 6 7 4 3 Hoarseness/dysphonia 2 3 6 <1 Gastrointestinal Candidiasis mouth/throat and non-site specific 4 2 5 <1 Lower respiratory Cough 4 6 4 5 Bronchitis 2 2 6 5 Neurological Headache 11 7 5 6 Table 2 includes all events (whether considered drug-related or nondrug-related by the investigator) that occurred at a rate of over 3% in any of the groups treated with FLOVENT HFA and were more common than in the placebo group. Less than 2% of subjects discontinued from the trials because of adverse reactions. The average duration of exposure was 73 to 76 days in the active treatment groups compared with 60 days in the placebo group. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by subjects with asthma treated with FLOVENT HFA compared with subjects treated with placebo include the following: rhinitis, rhinorrhea/post-nasal drip, nasal sinus disorders, laryngitis, diarrhea, viral gastrointestinal infections, dyspeptic symptoms, gastrointestinal discomfort and pain, hyposalivation, musculoskeletal pain, muscle pain, muscle stiffness/tightness/rigidity, dizziness, migraines, fever, viral infections, pain, chest symptoms, viral skin infections, muscle injuries, soft tissue injuries, urinary infections. Fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol (440 or 880 mcg twice daily) was administered for 16 weeks to 168 subjects with asthma requiring oral corticosteroids (Trial 3). Adverse reactions not included above, but reported by more than 3 subjects in either group treated with FLOVENT HFA and more commonly than in the placebo group included nausea and vomiting, arthralgia and articular rheumatism, and malaise and fatigue. In 2 long-term trials (26 and 52 weeks), the pattern of adverse reactions in subjects treated with FLOVENT HFA at dosages up to 440 mcg twice daily was similar to that observed in the 12-week trials. There were no new and/or unexpected adverse reactions with long-term treatment. Pediatric Subjects Aged 4 to 11 Years: FLOVENT HFA has been evaluated for safety in 56 pediatric subjects who received 88 mcg twice daily for 4 weeks. Types of adverse reactions in these pediatric subjects were generally similar to those observed in adults and adolescents. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. Ear, Nose, and Throat: Aphonia, facial and oropharyngeal edema, and throat soreness and irritation. Endocrine and Metabolic: Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hyperglycemia, osteoporosis, and weight gain. Eye: Cataracts. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Dental caries and tooth discoloration. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reactions, including urticaria, anaphylaxis, rash, and angioedema and bronchospasm, have been reported. Infections and Infestations: Esophageal candidiasis. Psychiatry: Agitation, aggression, anxiety, depression, and restlessness. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Respiratory: Asthma exacerbation, chest tightness, cough, dyspnea, immediate and delayed bronchospasm, paradoxical bronchospasm, pneumonia, and wheeze. Skin: Contusions, cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions, ecchymoses, and pruritus."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS • Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx may occur. Monitor patients periodically. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing after inhalation to help reduce the risk. (5.1) •Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.3) •Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from systemic corticosteroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to FLOVENT HFA. (5.4) •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue FLOVENT HFA slowly. (5.5) •Assess for decrease in bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.7) •Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.8) •Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.9) 5.1 Local Effects of Inhaled Corticosteroids In clinical trials, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in subjects treated with FLOVENT HFA. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral) antifungal therapy while treatment with FLOVENT HFA continues, but at times therapy with FLOVENT HFA may need to be interrupted. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing following inhalation to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. 5.2 Acute Asthma Episodes FLOVENT HFA is not to be regarded as a bronchodilator and is not indicated for rapid relief of bronchospasm. Patients should be instructed to contact their physicians immediately when episodes of asthma that are not responsive to bronchodilators occur during the course of treatment with FLOVENT HFA. During such episodes, patients may require therapy with oral corticosteroids. 5.3 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.4 Transferring Patients from Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although FLOVENT HFA may control asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to FLOVENT HFA. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with FLOVENT HFA. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [AM PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to FLOVENT HFA may unmask allergic conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). During withdrawal from oral corticosteroids, some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Fluticasone propionate will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of FLOVENT HFA in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing FLOVENT HFA. Because of the possibility of significant systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids in sensitive patients, patients treated with FLOVENT HFA should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients who are sensitive to these effects. If such effects occur, FLOVENT HFA should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids, and other treatments for management of asthma symptoms should be considered. 5.6 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., urticaria, angioedema, rash, bronchospasm, hypotension), including anaphylaxis, may occur after administration of FLOVENT HFA [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.7 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, postmenopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids), should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. A 2-year trial in 160 subjects (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving chlorofluorocarbon (CFC)-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 5.8 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving FLOVENT HFA routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including FLOVENT HFA, titrate each patient’s dosage to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.9 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm As with other inhaled medicines, bronchospasm may occur with an immediate increase in wheezing after dosing. If bronchospasm occurs following dosing with FLOVENT HFA, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; FLOVENT HFA should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. 5.11 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with FLOVENT HFA is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.12 Eosinophilic Conditions and Churg-Strauss Syndrome In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=45
Page 45 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "FLONASE ALLERGY RELIEF"
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=46
Page 46 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug interactions Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4. A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions ). During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. In a placebo-controlled, crossover study in 8 healthy volunteers, coadministration of a single dose of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg; 5 times the maximum daily intranasal dose) with multiple doses of ketoconazole (200 mg) to steady state resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, a reduction in plasma cortisol AUC, and no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Caution should be exercised when Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, is coadministered with ketoconazole and other known potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n=758) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 100 mcg Once Daily (n=167) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg Once Daily (n=782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomitting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Observed During Clinical Practice Practice: In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and Throat Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use )."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=47
Page 47 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "FLOVENT HFA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Use with strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors such as ritonavir and ketoconazole is not recommended. Systemic corticosteroid effects may occur. (7.1) 7.1 Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with FLOVENT HFA is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate concentration, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ketoconazole is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Reduction in bone mineral density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence >3%) include upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, throat irritation, sinusitis, dysphonia, candidiasis, cough, bronchitis, and headache. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The incidence of common adverse reactions in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled US clinical trials in which 812 adult and adolescent patients (457 females and 355 males) previously treated with as-needed bronchodilators and/or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily for up to 12 weeks with 2 inhalations of FLOVENT HFA 44 mcg Inhalation Aerosol, FLOVENT HFA 110 mcg Inhalation Aerosol, FLOVENT HFA 220 mcg Inhalation Aerosol (dosages of 88, 220, or 440 mcg twice daily), or placebo. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With >3% Incidence in US Controlled Clinical Trials With FLOVENT HFA in Patients Aged 12 Years and Older With Asthma Previously Receiving Bronchodilators and/or Inhaled Corticosteroids Adverse Event FLOVENT HFA 88 mcg Twice Daily (n = 203)% FLOVENT HFA 220 mcg Twice Daily (n = 204)% FLOVENT HFA 440 mcg Twice Daily (n = 202)% Placebo (n = 203)% Ear, nose, and throat Upper respiratory tract infection 18 16 16 14 Throat irritation 8 8 10 5 Upper respiratory inflammation 2 5 5 1 Sinusitis/sinus infection 6 7 4 3 Hoarseness/dysphonia 2 3 6 <1 Gastrointestinal Candidiasis mouth/throat & non-site specific 4 2 5 <1 Lower respiratory Cough 4 6 4 5 Bronchitis 2 2 6 5 Neurological Headache 11 7 5 6 Table 2 includes all events (whether considered drug-related or nondrug-related by the investigator) that occurred at a rate of over 3% in any of the groups treated with FLOVENT HFA and were more common than in the placebo group. Less than 2% of patients discontinued from the studies because of adverse reactions. The average duration of exposure was 73 to 76 days in the active treatment groups compared with 60 days in the placebo group. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with FLOVENT HFA compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: rhinitis, rhinorrhea/post-nasal drip, nasal sinus disorders, laryngitis, diarrhea, viral gastrointestinal infections, dyspeptic symptoms, gastrointestinal discomfort and pain, hyposalivation, musculoskeletal pain, muscle pain, muscle stiffness/tightness/rigidity, dizziness, migraines, fever, viral infections, pain, chest symptoms, viral skin infections, muscle injuries, soft tissue injuries, urinary infections. Fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol (440 or 880 mcg twice daily) was administered for 16 weeks to 168 patients with asthma requiring oral corticosteroids (Study 3). Adverse reactions not included above, but reported by more than 3 patients in either group treated with FLOVENT HFA and more commonly than in the placebo group included nausea and vomiting, arthralgia and articular rheumatism, and malaise and fatigue. In 2 long-term studies (26 and 52 weeks), the pattern of adverse reactions in patients treated with FLOVENT HFA at dosages up to 440 mcg twice daily was similar to that observed in the 12-week studies. There were no new and/or unexpected adverse reactions with long-term treatment. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: FLOVENT HFA has been evaluated for safety in 56 pediatric patients who received 88 mcg twice daily for 4 weeks. Types of adverse reactions in these pediatric patients were generally similar to those observed in adults and adolescents. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. Ear, Nose, and Throat: Aphonia, facial and oropharyngeal edema, and throat soreness and irritation. Endocrine and Metabolic: Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hyperglycemia, osteoporosis, and weight gain. Eye: Cataracts. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Dental caries and tooth discoloration. Psychiatry: Agitation, aggression, anxiety, depression, and restlessness. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reactions, including urticaria, anaphylaxis, rash, and angioedema and bronchospasm, have been reported. Respiratory: Asthma exacerbation, chest tightness, cough, dyspnea, immediate and delayed bronchospasm, paradoxical bronchospasm, pneumonia, and wheeze. Skin: Contusions, cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions, ecchymoses, and pruritus. Eosinophilic Conditions: In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions, with some patients presenting with clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)]."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse mouth following inhalation. (5.1) Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patients with above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.3) Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to FLOVENT HFA. (5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue FLOVENT HFA slowly. (5.5) Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, may occur after administration of FLOVENT HFA. Discontinue FLOVENT HFA if such reactions occur. (4, 5.6) Decreases in bone mineral density: Assess bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter in patients at risk. (5.7) Effect on growth: Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.8) Glaucoma and cataracts: Close monitoring is warranted. (5.9) 5.1 Local Effects In clinical studies, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in patients treated with FLOVENT HFA. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral antifungal) therapy while treatment with FLOVENT HFA continues, but at times therapy with FLOVENT HFA may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of FLOVENT HFA [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.2 Acute Asthma Episodes FLOVENT HFA is not to be regarded as a bronchodilator and is not indicated for rapid relief of bronchospasm. Patients should be instructed to contact their physicians immediately when episodes of asthma that are not responsive to bronchodilators occur during the course of treatment with FLOVENT HFA. During such episodes, patients may require therapy with oral corticosteroids. 5.3 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Because of the potential for worsening infections, inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infection of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.4 Transferring Patients From Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to FLOVENT HFA. In a clinical trial of 168 patients, prednisone reduction was successfully accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose on a weekly basis following initiation of treatment with FLOVENT HFA. Successive reduction of prednisone dose was allowed only when lung function, symptoms, and as-needed short-acting beta-agonist use were better than or comparable to that seen before initiation of prednisone dose reduction. Lung function (forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [AM PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although inhaled corticosteroids may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses they supply less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid (cortisol) systemically and do NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to FLOVENT HFA may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). Some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, and depression, despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function). 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Fluticasone propionate will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of FLOVENT HFA in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing FLOVENT HFA. Because of the possibility of systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with FLOVENT HFA should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when FLOVENT HFA is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of FLOVENT HFA should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma. 5.6 Hypersensitivity Reactions, Including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, and bronchospasm, may occur after administration of FLOVENT HFA [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.7 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term outcomes is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, postmenopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids), should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. 5.8 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving FLOVENT HFA routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including FLOVENT HFA, titrate each patient’s dosage to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2)]. 5.9 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm As with other inhaled medications, bronchospasm may occur with an immediate increase in wheezing after dosing. If bronchospasm occurs following dosing with FLOVENT HFA, it should be treated immediately with a fast-acting inhaled bronchodilator. Treatment with FLOVENT HFA should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. 5.11 Drug Interactions With Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with FLOVENT HFA is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.12 Eosinophilic Conditions and Churg-Strauss Syndrome In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=48
Page 48 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with fluticasone propionate nasal spray. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking fluticasone propionate nasal spray in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n = 758) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone Propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomiting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use)."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=49
Page 49 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "FLONASE"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with FLONASE Nasal Spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products, including FLONASE, with ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: •Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Effect on growth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most common adverse reactions (>3%) are headache, pharyngitis, epistaxis, nasal burning/nasal irritation, nausea/vomiting, asthma symptoms, and cough. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKlineat 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled US clinical trials, more than 3,300 subjects with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical trials have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by subjects treated with placebo. Less than 2% of subjects in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. The safety data described below are based on 7 placebo-controlled clinical trials in subjects with allergic rhinitis. The 7 trials included 536 subjects (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) treated with FLONASE 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials which included 246 subjects (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) treated with FLONASE 200 mcg once daily over 6 months (Table 1). Also included in Table 1 are adverse reactions from 2 trials in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with FLONASE 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with FLONASE Nasal Spray with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects ≥4 Years with Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Reaction FLONASE 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % FLONASE 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Placebo (n = 758) % Headache 6.6 16.1 14.6 Pharyngitis 6.0 7.8 7.2 Epistaxis 6.0 6.9 5.4 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.4 3.2 2.6 Nausea/vomiting 4.8 2.6 2.0 Asthma symptoms 7.2 3.3 2.9 Cough 3.6 3.8 2.8 Other adverse reactions with FLONASE Nasal Spray observed with an incidence less than or equal to 3% but greater than or equal to 1% and more common than with placebo included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu‑like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, and bronchitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Disorders Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including FLONASE [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1) •Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.2) •Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of FLONASE Nasal Spray. Discontinue FLONASE Nasal Spray if such reactions occur. (5.3) •Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.4) •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue FLONASE Nasal Spray slowly. (5.5) •Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.7) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks’ duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in subjects treated with FLONASE Nasal Spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Nasal Ulceration Postmarketing cases of nasal ulceration have been reported in patients treated with FLONASE Nasal Spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Candida Infection In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of FLONASE Nasal Spray. Patients using FLONASE Nasal Spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients treated with FLONASE Nasal Spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasaltrauma should avoid using FLONASE Nasal Spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Use of intranasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of FLONASE Nasal Spray. Discontinue FLONASE Nasal Spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)].Rarely, immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the administration of FLONASE Nasal Spray. 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the complete prescribing information for VZIG and IG.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal corticosteroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of FLONASE Nasal Spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression). Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long‑term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with FLONASE Nasal Spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.7 Effect on Growth Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving FLONASE Nasal Spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including FLONASE Nasal Spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=50
Page 50 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug Interactions Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4. Coadministration of fluticasone propionate and the highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor ritonavir is not recommended based upon a multiple-dose, crossover drug interaction study in 18 healthy subjects. Fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray (200 mcg once daily) was coadministered for 7 days with ritonavir (100 mg twice daily). Plasma fluticasone propionate concentrations following fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray alone were undetectable (<10 pg/mL) in most subjects, and when concentrations were detectable peak levels (Cmax averaged 11.9 pg/mL [range, 10.8 to 14.1 pg/mL] and AUC(0-τ) averaged 8.43 pg•hr/mL [range, 4.2 to 18.8 pg•hr/mL]). Fluticasone propionate Cmax and AUC(0-τ) increased to 318 pg/mL (range, 110 to 648 pg/mL) and 3,102.6 pg•hr/mL (range, 1,207.1 to 5,662.0 pg•hr/mL), respectively, after coadministration of ritonavir with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray. This significant increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure resulted in a significant decrease (86%) in plasma cortisol area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC). Caution should be exercised when other potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors are coadministered with fluticasone propionate. In a drug interaction study, coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in increased fluticasone propionate exposure and reduced plasma cortisol AUC, but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. In another multiple-dose drug interaction study, coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (500 mcg twice daily) and erythromycin (333 mg 3 times daily) did not affect fluticasone propionate pharmacokinetics.",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with fluticasone propionate nasal spray. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking fluticasone propionate nasal spray in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n = 758) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone Propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomiting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Observed During Clinical Practice In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and Throat Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use )."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=51
Page 51 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL"
        "brand_name": [
          "ADVAIR DISKUS"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta2-agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD, without adverse drug reactions. No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with ADVAIR DISKUS. Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Use not recommended. May cause systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. (7.1) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of salmeterol on vascular system. (7.2) Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. (7.3) Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. (7.4) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, are substrates of CYP 3A4. The use of strong CYP 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP 3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and reduced plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction study in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and Cmax increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. 7.3 Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, but may produce severe bronchospasm in patients with reversible obstructive airways disease. Therefore, patients with asthma and COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists, such as salmeterol, may increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large, placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Salmeterol is a component of ADVAIR DISKUS. However, the data from this study are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other component of ADVAIR DISKUS, or other asthma-controller therapy modifies the risk of asthma-related death. Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Pneumonia in patients with COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥3%) are: Asthma: upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, pharyngitis, dysphonia, oral candidiasis, bronchitis, cough, headaches, nausea and vomiting. (6.1) COPD: pneumonia, oral candidiasis, throat irritation, dysphonia, viral respiratory infections, headaches, musculoskeletal pain. (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Asthma Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older: The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR DISKUS in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled, 12-week, US clinical studies (Studies 1 and 2). A total of 705 adolescent and adult patients (349 females and 356 males) previously treated with salmeterol or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS (100/50- or 250/50-mcg doses), fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100- or 250-mcg doses), salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. The average duration of exposure was 60 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 42 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (N = 92) % ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 84) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (N = 90) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 84) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 180) % Placebo (N = 175) % Ear, nose, & throat Upper respiratory tract infection 27 21 29 25 19 14 Pharyngitis 13 10 7 12 8 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 7 6 7 8 8 5 Sinusitis 4 5 6 1 3 4 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 2 2 4 <1 <1 Oral candidiasis 1 4 2 2 0 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 4 4 4 10 6 3 Bronchitis 2 8 1 2 2 2 Cough 3 6 0 0 3 2 Neurology Headaches 12 13 14 8 10 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea & vomiting 4 6 3 4 1 1 Gastrointestinal discomfort & pain 4 1 0 2 1 1 Diarrhea 4 2 2 2 1 1 Viral gastrointestinal infections 3 0 3 1 2 2 Non-site specific Candidiasis unspecified site 3 0 1 4 0 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 4 2 1 5 3 3 The types of adverse reactions and events reported in Study 3, a 28-week, non-US clinical study of 503 patients previously treated with inhaled corticosteroids who were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg used concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, were similar to those reported in Table 2. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: lymphatic signs and symptoms; muscle injuries; fractures; wounds and lacerations; contusions and hematomas; ear signs and symptoms; nasal signs and symptoms; nasal sinus disorders; keratitis and conjunctivitis; dental discomfort and pain; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; oral discomfort and pain; lower respiratory signs and symptoms; pneumonia; muscle stiffness, tightness, and rigidity; bone and cartilage disorders; sleep disorders; compressed nerve syndromes; viral infections; pain; chest symptoms; fluid retention; bacterial infections; unusual taste; viral skin infections; skin flakiness and acquired ichthyosis; disorders of sweat and sebum. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: The safety data for pediatric patients aged 4 to 11 years is based upon 1 US trial of 12 weeks’ treatment duration. A total of 203 patients (74 females and 129 males) who were receiving inhaled corticosteroids at study entry were randomized to either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily. Common adverse reactions (≥3% and greater than placebo) seen in the pediatric patients but not reported in the adult and adolescent clinical trials include: throat irritation and ear, nose, and throat infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities: Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in ≥1% of patients in clinical trials. The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the studies. In addition, there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Short-Term (6 Months to 1 Year) Trials: The short-term safety data are based on exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily in one 6-month and two 1-year clinical trials. In the 6-month trial, a total of 723 adult patients (266 females and 457 males) were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder, or placebo. The mean age of the patients was 64, and the majority (93%) was Caucasian. In this trial, 70% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS reported an adverse reaction compared with 64% on placebo. The average duration of exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was 141.3 days compared with 131.6 days for placebo. The incidence of adverse reactions in the 6-month study is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Overall Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Associated With Chronic Bronchitis Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 178) % Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 183) % Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 177) % Placebo (N = 185) % Ear, nose, & throat Candidiasis mouth/throat 10 6 3 1 Throat irritation 8 5 4 7 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 3 <1 0 Sinusitis 3 8 5 3 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 6 4 3 3 Neurology Headaches 16 11 10 12 Dizziness 4 <1 3 2 Non-site specific Fever 4 3 0 3 Malaise & fatigue 3 2 2 3 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 9 8 12 9 Muscle cramps & spasms 3 3 1 1 In the two 1-year studies, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was compared with salmeterol in 1,579 patients (863 males and 716 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (94%) was Caucasian. To be enrolled, all of the patients had to have had a COPD exacerbation in the previous 12 months. In this trial, 88% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 86% of the patients treated with salmeterol reported an adverse event. The most common events that occurred with a frequency of >5% and more frequently in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, back pain, sinusitis, dizziness, nausea, pneumonia, candidiasis, and dysphonia. Overall, 55 (7%) of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 25 (3%) of the patients treated with salmeterol developed pneumonia. The incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age, 9% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with 4% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS less than 65 years of age. In the patients treated with salmeterol, the incidence of pneumonia was the same (3%) in both age-groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Long-Term (3-Year) Trial: The safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international, 3-year study in 6,184 adult patients with COPD (4,684 males and 1,500 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (82%) was Caucasian. The distribution of adverse events was similar to that seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. In addition, pneumonia was reported in a significantly increased number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg (16% and 14%, respectively) compared with patients treated with salmeterol 50 mcg or placebo (11% and 9%, respectively). When adjusted for time on treatment, the rates of pneumonia were 84 and 88 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the groups treated with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg and with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, compared with 52 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the salmeterol and placebo groups. Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 vs. 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 vs. 8% with placebo). [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with COPD treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: syncope; ear, nose, and throat infections; ear signs and symptoms; laryngitis; nasal congestion/blockage; nasal sinus disorders; pharyngitis/throat infection; hypothyroidism; dry eyes; eye infections; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral lesions; abnormal liver function tests; bacterial infections; edema and swelling; viral infections. Laboratory Abnormalities: There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials. Specifically, no increased reporting of neutrophilia or changes in glucose or potassium was noted. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during worldwide use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR DISKUS, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders: Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), ventricular tachycardia. Endocrine Disorders: Cushing syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism. Eye Disorders: Glaucoma. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, xerostomia. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reaction (including very rare anaphylactic reaction). Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy. Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperglycemia, weight gain. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders: Arthralgia, cramps, myositis, osteoporosis. Nervous System Disorders: Paresthesia, restlessness. Psychiatric Disorders: Agitation, aggression, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Dysmenorrhea. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Chest congestion; chest tightness; dyspnea; facial and oropharyngeal edema, immediate bronchospasm; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Ecchymoses, photodermatitis. Vascular Disorders: Pallor."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Asthma-related death: Long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists may increase the risk. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. (5.1) Deterioration of disease and acute episodes: Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or to treat acute symptoms. (5.2) Use with additional long-acting beta2-agonist: Do not use in combination because of risk of overdose. (5.3) Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and throat may occur. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse the mouth following inhalation. (5.4) Pneumonia: Increased risk in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. (5.5) Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis, fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; or ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.6) Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.7) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS slowly. (5.8) Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Risk of increased systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. Use not recommended with ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.9) Paradoxical bronchospasm: Discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS and institute alternative therapy if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs. (5.10) Patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders: Use with caution because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. (5.12) Decreases in bone mineral density: Assess bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.13) Effects on growth: Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.14) Glaucoma and cataracts: Close monitoring is warranted. (5.15) Metabolic effects: Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. (5.16, 5.18) Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.17) 5.1 Risk of Asthma-Related Death With Long-Acting Beta2-Adrenergic Agonists Long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, may increase the risk of asthma-related death. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe ADVAIR DISKUS for patients not adequately controlled on other asthma-controller medications (e.g., low- to medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids) or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with 2 maintenance therapies. A large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol. The Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) was a randomized, double-blind study that enrolled long-acting beta2-agonist–naive patients with asthma to assess the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol) 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy. A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of patients had been enrolled (N = 26,355), which led to premature termination of the study. The results of the interim analysis showed that patients receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events (see Table 1 and Figure 1). In the total population, a higher rate of asthma-related death occurred in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.10% vs. 0.02%, relative risk 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Post-hoc subpopulation analyses were performed. In Caucasians, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than in patients treated with placebo (0.07% vs. 0.01%, relative risk 5.82 [95% CI: 0.70, 48.37]). In African Americans also, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.31% vs. 0.04%, relative risk 7.26 [95% CI: 0.89, 58.94]). Although the relative risks of asthma-related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans, the estimate of excess deaths in patients treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma-related death in African American patients (see Table 1). Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta2-agonists, it is possible that the findings seen in the SMART study represent a class effect. The data from the SMART study are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other active ingredient in ADVAIR DISKUS, or other asthma-controller therapy modifies the risk of asthma-related death. Table 1. Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) Salmeterol n (%a) Placebo n (%a) Relative Riskb (95% Confidence Interval) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10,000 Patientsc (95% Confidence Interval) Total Populationd Salmeterol: N = 13,176 13 (0.10%) 4.37 (1.25, 15.34) 8 (3, 13) Placebo: N = 13,179 3 (0.02%) Caucasian Salmeterol: N = 9,281 6 (0.07%) 5.82 (0.70, 48.37) 6 (1, 10) Placebo: N = 9,361 1 (0.01%) African American Salmeterol: N = 2,366 7 (0.31%) 7.26 (0.89, 58.94) 27 (8, 46) Placebo: N = 2,319 1 (0.04%) aLife-table 28-week estimate, adjusted according to the patients’ actual lengths of exposure to study treatment to account for early withdrawal of patients from the study. bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma-related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group. The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma-related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28-week treatment period. cEstimate of the number of additional asthma-related deaths in patients treated with salmeterol in SMART, assuming 10,000 patients received salmeterol for a 28-week treatment period. Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma-related death multiplied by 10,000. dThe Total Population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form: Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and “Other.” In addition, the Total Population includes those patients whose ethnic origin was not reported. The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above. No asthma-related deaths occurred in the Hispanic (salmeterol n = 996, placebo n = 999), Asian (salmeterol n = 173, placebo n = 149), or “Other” (salmeterol n = 230, placebo n = 224) subpopulations. One asthma-related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported (salmeterol n = 130, placebo n = 127). Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment A 16-week clinical study performed in the United Kingdom, the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance (SNS) study, showed results similar to the SMART study. In the SNS study, the rate of asthma-related death was numerically, though not statistically significantly, greater in patients with asthma treated with salmeterol (42 mcg twice daily) than those treated with albuterol (180 mcg 4 times daily) added to usual asthma therapy. The SNS and SMART studies enrolled patients with asthma. No studies have been conducted that were primarily designed to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists. 5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes ADVAIR DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma or COPD. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. The initiation of ADVAIR DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily (morning and evening) of ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist, not ADVAIR DISKUS, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS, the physician must also provide the patient with an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular twice-daily (morning and evening) use of ADVAIR DISKUS. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. 5.3 Excessive Use of ADVAIR DISKUS and Use With Other Long-Acting Beta2-Agonists As with other inhaled drugs containing beta2-adrenergic agents, ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medications containing long-acting beta2-agonists, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use an additional long-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate) for any reason, including prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm (EIB) or the maintenance treatment of asthma or COPD. 5.4 Local Effects In clinical studies, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral antifungal) therapy while treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS. 5.5 Pneumonia Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of pneumonia and exacerbations frequently overlap. Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with COPD following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS. In 2 replicate 12-month studies of 1,579 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in patients over 65 years of age (9%) compared with the incidence in patients less than 65 years of age (4%). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] In a 3-year study of 6,184 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 vs. 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 vs. 8% with placebo). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] 5.6 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.7 Transferring Patients From Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ADVAIR DISKUS may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to inhaled corticosteroids or ADVAIR DISKUS may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). Some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.8 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ADVAIR DISKUS in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS. Because of the possibility of systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when fluticasone propionate is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of ADVAIR DISKUS should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma symptoms. 5.9 Drug Interactions With Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong CYP 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm and Upper Airway Symptoms As with other inhaled medications, ADVAIR DISKUS can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ADVAIR DISKUS, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator, ADVAIR DISKUS should be discontinued immediately, and alternative therapy should be instituted. Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling, such as stridor and choking, have been reported in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and salmeterol 5.11 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ADVAIR DISKUS, as demonstrated by cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, and bronchospasm. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not take ADVAIR DISKUS [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.12 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects Excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, and insomnia [see Overdosage (10)]. Therefore, ADVAIR DISKUS, like all products containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol (12 to 20 times the recommended dose) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. 5.13 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, post-menopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating ADVAIR DISKUS and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and ADVAIR DISKUS is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medication to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. 2-Year Fluticasone Propionate Study: A 2-year study of 160 patients (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving CFC-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 3-Year Bone Mineral Density Study:Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 or salmeterol 50 mcg on BMD at the L1-L4 lumbar spine and total hip were evaluated in 186 patients with COPD (aged 43 to 87 years) in a 3-year double-blind study. Of those enrolled, 108 patients (72 males and 36 females) were followed for the entire 3 years. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 6-month intervals. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study regarding BMD decline in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS versus salmeterol due to the inconsistency of treatment differences across gender and between lumbar spine and total hip. In this study there were 7 non-traumatic fractures reported in 5 patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 1 non-traumatic fracture in 1 patient treated with salmeterol. None of the non-traumatic fractures occurred in the vertebrae, hip, or long bones. 3-Year Survival Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on BMD was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients (females and males aged 40 to 80 years) with COPD in the 3-year survival study. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study because of the large number of drop outs (>50%) before the end of the follow-up and the maldistribution of covariates among the treatment groups that can affect BMD. Fracture risk was estimated for the entire population of patients with COPD in the survival study (N = 6,184). The probability of a fracture over 3 years was 6.3% for ADVAIR DISKUS, 5.4% for fluticasone propionate, 5.1% for salmeterol, and 5.1% for placebo. 5.14 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR DISKUS, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4).] 5.15 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with asthma and COPD following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on development of cataracts or glaucoma was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients with COPD in the 3-year survival study. Ophthalmic examinations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions about cataracts cannot be drawn from this study because the high incidence of cataracts at baseline (61% to 71%) resulted in an inadequate number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 who were eligible and available for evaluation of cataracts at the end of the study (n = 53). The incidence of newly diagnosed glaucoma was 2% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 5% with fluticasone propionate, 0% with salmeterol, and 2% with placebo. 5.16 Eosinophilic Conditions and Churg-Strauss Syndrome In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established. 5.17 Coexisting Conditions ADVAIR DISKUS, like all medications containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. 5.18 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta-adrenergic agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical studies with ADVAIR DISKUS at recommended doses. Figure 1"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=52
Page 52 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL XINAFOATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "ADVAIR HFA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR HFA has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta2-agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma, without adverse drug reactions [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. No formal drug interaction trials have been performed with ADVAIR HFA. •Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. (7.1) •Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of salmeterol on vascular system. (7.2) •Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. (7.3) •Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with non–potassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. (7.4) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR HFA, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR HFA is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction trial in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and Cmax increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants ADVAIR HFA should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR HFA, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. 7.3 Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR HFA, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with asthma. Therefore, patients with asthma should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Non–Potassium-Sparing Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of non–potassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR HFA, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical significance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of ADVAIR HFA with non–potassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS LABA, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR HFA, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled US trial that compared the safety of salmeterol or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: • Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Pneumonia in patients with COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Reduction in bone mineral density [see Warnings and Precautions (5.13)] •Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] •Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Most common adverse reactions (incidence greater than or equal to 3%) include: upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, throat irritation, dysphonia, headache, dizziness, nausea and vomiting. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult and Adolescent Subjects Aged 12 Years and Older: The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR HFA in Table 2 is based upon two 12-week, placebo-controlled, US clinical trials (Trials 1 and 3) and 1 active-controlled 12-week US clinical trial (Trial 2). A total of 1,008 adult and adolescent subjects with asthma (556 females and 452 males) previously treated with albuterol alone, salmeterol, or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily with 2 inhalations of ADVAIR HFA 45/21 or ADVAIR HFA 115/21, fluticasone propionate CFC inhalation aerosol (44- or 110-mcg doses), salmeterol CFC inhalation aerosol 21 mcg, or placebo HFA inhalation aerosol. The average duration of exposure was 71 to 81 days in the active treatment groups compared with 51 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions with ADVAIR HFA with ≥3% Incidence in Adult and Adolescent Subjects with Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR HFA Inhalation Aerosol Fluticasone Propionate CFC Inhalation Aerosol Salmeterol CFC Inhalation Aerosol Placebo HFA Inhalation Aerosol 45/21 (n = 187) % 115/21 (n = 94) % 44 mcg (n = 186) % 110 mcg (n = 91) % 21 mcg (n = 274) % (n = 176) % Ear, nose, and throat Upper respiratory tract infection 16 24 13 15 17 13 Throat irritation 9 7 12 13 9 7 Upper respiratory inflammation 4 4 3 7 5 3 Hoarseness/dysphonia 3 1 2 0 1 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infection 3 5 4 5 3 4 Neurology Headache 21 15 24 16 20 11 Dizziness 4 1 1 0 <1 0 Gastrointestinal Nausea and vomiting 5 3 4 2 2 3 Viral gastrointestinal infection 4 2 2 0 1 2 Gastrointestinal signs and symptoms 3 2 2 1 1 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 5 7 8 2 4 4 Muscle pain 4 1 1 1 3 <1 The incidence of common adverse reactions reported in Trial 4, a 12-week non-US clinical trial in 509 subjects previously treated with inhaled corticosteroids who were treated twice daily with 2 inhalations of ADVAIR HFA 230/21, fluticasone propionate CFC inhalation aerosol 220 mcg, or 1 inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was similar to the incidences reported in Table 2. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that occurred in the groups receiving ADVAIR HFA with an incidence of 1% to 3% and that occurred at a greater incidence than with placebo include the following: tachycardia, arrhythmias, myocardial infarction, postoperative complications, wounds and lacerations, soft tissue injuries, ear signs and symptoms, rhinorrhea/postnasal drip, epistaxis, nasal congestion/blockage, laryngitis, unspecified oropharyngeal plaques, dryness of nose, weight gain, allergic eye disorders, eye edema and swelling, gastrointestinal discomfort and pain, dental discomfort and pain, candidiasis mouth/throat, hyposalivation, gastrointestinal infections, disorders of hard tissue of teeth, abdominal discomfort and pain, oral abnormalities, arthralgia and articular rheumatism, muscle cramps and spasms, musculoskeletal inflammation, bone and skeletal pain, muscle injuries, sleep disorders, migraines, allergies and allergic reactions, viral infections, bacterial infections, candidiasis unspecified site, congestion, inflammation, bacterial reproductive infections, lower respiratory signs and symptoms, lower respiratory infections, lower respiratory hemorrhage, eczema, dermatitis and dermatosis, urinary infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities: In Trial 3, there were more reports of hyperglycemia among adults and adolescents receiving ADVAIR HFA, but this was not seen in Trials 1 and 2. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiovascular: Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), hypertension, ventricular tachycardia. Ear, Nose, and Throat: Aphonia, earache, facial and oropharyngeal edema, paranasal sinus pain, rhinitis, throat soreness, tonsillitis. Endocrine and Metabolic: Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism, osteoporosis. Eye: Cataracts, glaucoma. Gastrointestinal: Dyspepsia, xerostomia. Hepatobiliary Tract and Pancreas: Abnormal liver function tests. Immune System: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reactions, including rash and rare events of angioedema, bronchospasm, and anaphylaxis. Infections and Infestations: Esophageal candidiasis. Musculoskeletal: Back pain, myositis. Neurology: Paresthesia, restlessness. Non-Site Specific: Fever, pallor. Psychiatry: Agitation, aggression, anxiety, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Respiratory: Asthma; asthma exacerbation; chest congestion; chest tightness; cough; dyspnea; immediate bronchospasm; influenza; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; pneumonia; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin: Contact dermatitis, contusions, ecchymoses, photodermatitis, pruritus. Urogenital: Dysmenorrhea, irregular menstrual cycle, pelvic inflammatory disease, vaginal candidiasis, vaginitis, vulvovaginitis."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •LABA increase the risk of asthma-related death and asthma-related hospitalizations. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. (5.1) •Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or to treat acute symptoms. (5.2) •Do not use in combination with an additional medicine containing LABA because of risk of overdose. (5.3) • Candida albicans infection of the mouth and pharynx may occur. Monitor patients periodically. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing after inhalation to help reduce the risk. (5.4) •Increased risk of pneumonia in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. (5.5) •Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.6) •Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from systemic corticosteroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR HFA. (5.7) •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR HFA slowly. (5.8) •If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs, discontinue ADVAIR HFA and institute alternative therapy. (5.10) •Use with caution in patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. (5.12) •Assess for decrease in bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.13) •Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.14) •Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.15) •Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. (5.16, 5.18) •Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.17) 5.1 Asthma-Related Death LABA, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR HFA, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe ADVAIR HFA for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue ADVAIR HFA) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use ADVAIR HFA for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A large placebo-controlled US trial that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in subjects receiving salmeterol. The Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) was a randomized double-blind trial that enrolled LABA-naive subjects with asthma to assess the safety of salmeterol 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy. A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of subjects had been enrolled (N = 26,355), which led to premature termination of the trial. The results of the interim analysis showed that subjects receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events (see Table 1 and Figure 1). In the total population, a higher rate of asthma-related death occurred in subjects treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.10% versus 0.02%; relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Post-hoc subpopulation analyses were performed. In Caucasians, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in subjects treated with salmeterol than in subjects treated with placebo (0.07% versus 0.01%; relative risk: 5.82 [95% CI: 0.70, 48.37]). In African Americans also, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in subjects treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.31% versus 0.04%; relative risk: 7.26 [95% CI: 0.89, 58.94]). Although the relative risks of asthma-related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans, the estimate of excess deaths in subjects treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma-related death in African American subjects (see Table 1). Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta2-agonists, the findings seen in the SMART trial are considered a class effect. Post-hoc analyses in pediatric subjects aged 12 to 18 years were also performed. Pediatric subjects accounted for approximately 12% of subjects in each treatment arm. Respiratory-related death or life-threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group (0.12% [2/1,653]) and the placebo group (0.12% [2/1,622]; relative risk: 1.0 [95% CI: 0.1, 7.2]). All-cause hospitalization, however, was increased in the salmeterol group (2% [35/1,653]) versus the placebo group (less than 1% [16/1,622]; relative risk: 2.1 [95% CI: 1.1, 3.7]). The data from the SMART trial are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other active ingredient in ADVAIR HFA, or other long-term asthma control therapy mitigates the risk of asthma-related death. Table 1. Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) Salmeterol n (%a) Placebo n (%a) Relative Riskb (95% Confidence Interval) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10,000 Subjectsc (95% Confidence Interval) Total populationd Salmeterol: n = 13,176 13 (0.10%) 4.37 (1.25, 15.34) 8 (3, 13) Placebo: n = 13,179 3 (0.02%) Caucasian Salmeterol: n = 9,281 6 (0.07%) 5.82 (0.70, 48.37) 6 (1, 10) Placebo: n = 9,361 1 (0.01%) African American Salmeterol: n = 2,366 7 (0.31%) 7.26 (0.89, 58.94) 27 (8, 46) Placebo: n = 2,319 1 (0.04%) aLife-table 28-week estimate, adjusted according to the subjects’ actual lengths of exposure to trial treatment to account for early withdrawal of subjects from the trial. bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma-related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group. The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma-related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28-week treatment period. cEstimate of the number of additional asthma-related deaths in subjects treated with salmeterol in SMART, assuming 10,000 subjects received salmeterol for a 28-week treatment period. Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma-related death multiplied by 10,000. dThe total population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form: Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and “Other.” In addition, the Total Population includes those subjects whose ethnic origin was not reported. The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above. No asthma-related deaths occurred in the Hispanic (salmeterol n = 996, placebo n = 999), Asian (salmeterol n = 173, placebo n = 149), or “Other” (salmeterol n = 230, placebo n = 224) subpopulations. One asthma-related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported (salmeterol n = 130, placebo n = 127). Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment A 16-week clinical trial performed in the United Kingdom, the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance (SNS) trial, showed results similar to the SMART trial. In the SNS trial, the rate of asthma-related death was numerically, though not statistically significantly, greater in subjects with asthma treated with salmeterol (42 mcg twice daily) than those treated with albuterol (180 mcg 4 times daily) added to usual asthma therapy. Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment 5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes ADVAIR HFA should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma. ADVAIR HFA has not been studied in subjects with acutely deteriorating asthma. The initiation of ADVAIR HFA in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR HFA, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR HFA with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 2 inhalations twice daily of ADVAIR HFA. ADVAIR HFA should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist, not ADVAIR HFA, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ADVAIR HFA, the healthcare provider should also prescribe an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular twice-daily use of ADVAIR HFA. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR HFA, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. 5.3 Excessive Use of ADVAIR HFA and Use with Other Long-Acting Beta2-Agonists ADVAIR HFA should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medicines containing LABA, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR HFA should not use another medicine containing a LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate, indacaterol) for any reason. 5.4 Local Effects of Inhaled Corticosteroids In clinical trials, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in subjects treated with ADVAIR HFA. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral) antifungal therapy while treatment with ADVAIR HFA continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR HFA may need to be interrupted. Advise the patient to rinse his/her mouth with water without swallowing following inhalation to help reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis. 5.5 Pneumonia Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS® (fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder). In 2 replicate 1-year trials in 1,579 subjects with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the subjects treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in subjects older than 65 years (9%) compared with the incidence in subjects younger than 65 years (4%). In a 3-year trial in 6,184 subjects with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in subjects receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in subjects older than 65 years (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with subjects younger than 65 years (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). 5.6 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.7 Transferring Patients from Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ADVAIR HFA may control asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ADVAIR HFA. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with ADVAIR HFA. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [AM PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to ADVAIR HFA may unmask allergic conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). During withdrawal from oral corticosteroids, some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.8 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR HFA, will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ADVAIR HFA in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ADVAIR HFA. Because of the possibility of significant systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids in sensitive patients, patients treated with ADVAIR HFA should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients who are sensitive to these effects. If such effects occur, ADVAIR HFA should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids, and other treatments for management of asthma symptoms should be considered. 5.9 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR HFA is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm and Upper Airway Symptoms As with other inhaled medicines, ADVAIR HFA can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ADVAIR HFA, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; ADVAIR HFA should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling, such as stridor and choking, have been reported in patients receiving ADVAIR HFA. 5.11 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., urticaria, angioedema, rash, bronchospasm, hypotension), including anaphylaxis, may occur after administration of ADVAIR HFA [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.12 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects Excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, and insomnia [see Overdosage (10)]. Therefore, ADVAIR HFA, like all products containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR HFA, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram (ECG) changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol (12 to 20 times the recommended dose) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. 5.13 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, postmenopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids), should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. 2-Year Fluticasone Propionate Trial: A 2-year trial in 160 subjects (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving chlorofluorocarbon (CFC)-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 5.14 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ADVAIR HFA routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR HFA, titrate each patient’s dosage to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. 5.15 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with asthma following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR HFA. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.16 Eosinophilic Conditions and Churg-Strauss Syndrome In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR HFA, may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established. 5.17 Coexisting Conditions ADVAIR HFA, like all medicines containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Large doses of the related beta2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. 5.18 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta-adrenergic agonist medicines may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical trials with ADVAIR HFA at recommended doses."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=53
Page 53 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE FUROATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "VERAMYST"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "DRUG INTERACTIONS Fluticasone furoate is cleared by extensive first-pass metabolism mediated by CYP3A4. In a drug interaction study of intranasal fluticasone furoate and the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole given as a 200-mg once-daily dose for 7 days, 6 of 20 subjects receiving fluticasone furoate and ketoconazole had measurable but low levels of fluticasone furoate compared with 1 of 20 receiving fluticasone furoate and placebo. Based on this study and the low systemic exposure, there was a 5% reduction in 24-hour serum cortisol levels with ketoconazole compared with placebo. The data from this study should be carefully interpreted because the study was conducted with ketoconazole 200 mg once daily rather than 400 mg, which is the maximum recommended dosage. Therefore, caution is required with the coadministration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray and ketoconazole or other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors. Based on data with another glucocorticoid, fluticasone propionate, metabolized by CYP3A4, coadministration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray with the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ritonavir is not recommended because of the risk of systemic effects secondary to increased exposure to fluticasone furoate. High exposure to corticosteroids increases the potential for systemic side effects, such as cortisol suppression. Enzyme induction and inhibition data suggest that fluticasone furoate is unlikely to significantly alter the cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism of other compounds at clinically relevant intranasal dosages."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: •Epistaxis, ulcerations, Candida albicans infection, impaired wound healing, and nasal septal perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis effects, including growth reduction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] The safety data described below reflect exposure to VERAMYST Nasal Spray in 1,563 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis in 9 controlled clinical trials of 2 to 12 weeks’ duration. The data from adults and adolescents are based upon 6 clinical trials in which 768 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis (473 females and 295 males aged 12 years and older) were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily for 2 to 6 weeks. The racial distribution of adult and adolescent patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was 82% white, 5% black, and 13% other. The data from pediatric patients are based upon 3 clinical trials in which 795 children with seasonal or perennial rhinitis (352 females and 443 males aged 2 to 11 years) were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 55 or 110 mcg once daily for 2 to 12 weeks. The racial distribution of pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was 75% white, 11% black, and 14% other. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults and Adolescents Aged 12 Years and Older: Overall adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray and those receiving placebo. Less than 3% of patients in clinical trials discontinued treatment because of adverse reactions. The rate of withdrawal among patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was similar or lower than the rate among patients receiving placebo. Table 1 displays the common adverse reactions (>1% in any patient group receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray) that occurred more frequently in patients aged 12 years and older treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 1. Adverse Reactions With >1% Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials of 2 to 6 Weeks’ Duration With VERAMYST Nasal Spray in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Event Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older Vehicle Placebo (n = 774) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg Once Daily (n = 768) Headache 54 (7%) 72 (9%) Epistaxis 32 (4%) 45 (6%) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 8 (1%) 15 (2%) Nasal ulceration 3 (<1%) 11 (1%) Back pain 7 (<1%) 9 (1%) There were no differences in the incidence of adverse reactions based on gender or race. Clinical trials did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Pediatric Patients Aged 2 to 11 Years: In the 3 clinical trials in pediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years, overall adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray and those receiving placebo. Table 2 displays the common adverse reactions (>3% in any patient group receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray), that occurred more frequently in patients aged 2 to 11 years treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With >3% Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials of 2 to 12 Weeks’ Duration With VERAMYST Nasal Spray in Pediatric Patients With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Event Pediatric Patients Aged 2 to <12 Years Vehicle Placebo (n = 429) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 55 mcg Once Daily (n = 369) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg Once Daily (n = 426) Headache 31 (7%) 28 (8%) 33 (8%) Nasopharyngitis 21 (5%) 20 (5%) 21 (5%) Epistaxis 19 (4%) 17 (5%) 17 (4%) Pyrexia 7 (2%) 17 (5%) 19 (4%) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 14 (3%) 16 (4%) 12 (3%) Cough 12 (3%) 12 (3%) 16 (4%) There were no differences in the incidence of adverse reactions based on gender or race. Pyrexia occurred more frequently in children aged 2 to <6 years compared with children aged 6 to <12 years. Long-Term (52-Week) Safety Trial: In a 52-week, placebo-controlled, long-term safety trial, 605 patients (307 females and 298 males aged 12 years and older) with perennial allergic rhinitis were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily for 12 months and 201 were treated with placebo nasal spray. While most adverse reactions were similar in type and rate between the treatment groups, epistaxis occurred more frequently in patients who received VERAMYST Nasal Spray (123/605, 20%) than in patients who received placebo (17/201, 8%). Epistaxis tended to be more severe in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray. All 17 reports of epistaxis that occurred in patients who received placebo were of mild intensity, while 83, 39, and 1 of the total 123 epistaxis events in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray were of mild, moderate, and severe intensity, respectively. No patient experienced a nasal septal perforation during this trial. In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone furoate or a combination of these factors. Immune System Disorders: Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Rhinalgia, nasal discomfort (including nasal burning, nasal irritation, and nasal soreness), nasal dryness, and nasal septal perforation."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1)•Development of glaucoma or posterior subcapsular cataracts. Monitor patients closely with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. (5.2)•Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria, may occur after administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. (5.3)•Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patients with the above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.4)•Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue VERAMYST Nasal Spray slowly. (5.5)•Potential reduction in growth velocity in children. Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray. (5.7, 8.4) Epistaxis and Nasal Ulceration: In clinical studies of 2 to 52 weeks’ duration, epistaxis and nasal ulcerations were observed more frequently and some epistaxis events were more severe in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Candida Infection: Evidence of localized infections of the nose with Candida albicans was seen on nasal exams in 7 of 2,745 patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray during clinical trials and was reported as an adverse event in 3 patients. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Therefore, patients using VERAMYST Nasal Spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation: Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients following the intranasal application of VERAMYST Nasal Spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing: Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should not use VERAMYST Nasal Spray until healing has occurred. Nasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure (IOP), glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Glaucoma and cataract formation was evaluated with intraocular pressure measurements and slit lamp examinations in 1 controlled 12-month study in 806 adolescent and adult patients aged 12 years and older and in 1 controlled 12-week study in 558 children aged 2 to 11 years. The patients had perennial allergic rhinitis and were treated with either VERAMYST Nasal Spray (110 mcg once daily in adult and adolescent patients and 55 or 110 mcg once daily in pediatric patients) or placebo. Intraocular pressure remained within the normal range (<21 mmHg) in ≥98% of the patients in any treatment group in both studies. However, in the 12-month study in adolescents and adults, 12 patients, all treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily, had intraocular pressure measurements that increased above normal levels (≥21 mmHg). In the same study, 7 patients (6 treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily and 1 patient treated with placebo) had cataracts identified during the study that were not present at baseline. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria, may occur after administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Discontinue VERAMYST Nasal Spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)]. Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases or have not been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox or measles develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract, untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections, systemic viral or parasitic infections, or ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for worsening of these infections. Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression: When intranasal steroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of VERAMYST Nasal Spray should be discontinued slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression. Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. Coadministration with ritonavir is not recommended because of the risk of systemic effects secondary to increased exposure to fluticasone furoate. Use caution with the coadministration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray and other potent cytochrome P450 3A4(CYP3A4) inhibitors, such as ketoconazole [see Drug Interactions (7)]. Corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including VERAMYST Nasal Spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=54
Page 54 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug interactions Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of cytochrome P450 3A4. A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a highly potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations (see ). During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing syndrome and adrenal suppression. Therefore, coadministration of fluticasone propionate and ritonavir is not recommended unless the potential benefit to the patient outweighs the risk of systemic corticosteroid side effects. CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY: Drug Interactions In a placebo-controlled, crossover study in 8 healthy volunteers, coadministration of a single dose of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg; 5 times the maximum daily intranasal dose) with multiple doses of ketoconazole (200 mg) to steady state resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, a reduction in plasma cortisol AUC, and no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Caution should be exercised when Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, is coadministered with ketoconazole and other known potent cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co., Inc. at 1-800-262-9010 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon 7 controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from 2 studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP, in Patients ≥4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (n=758) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 100 mcg Once Daily (n=167) % Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP 200 mcg Once Daily (n=782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6.0 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6.0 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomitting 2.0 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Observed During Clinical Practice Practice: In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and Throat Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray, USP (see ). PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=55
Page 55 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE FUROATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "VERAMYST"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Fluticasone furoate is cleared by extensive first-pass metabolism mediated by CYP3A4. In a drug interaction trial of intranasal fluticasone furoate and the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole given as a 200-mg once-daily dose for 7 days, 6 of 20 subjects receiving fluticasone furoate and ketoconazole had measurable but low levels of fluticasone furoate compared with 1 of 20 receiving fluticasone furoate and placebo. Based on this trial and the low systemic exposure, there was a 5% reduction in 24-hour serum cortisol levels with ketoconazole compared with placebo. The data from this trial should be carefully interpreted because the trial was conducted with ketoconazole 200 mg once daily rather than 400 mg, which is the maximum recommended dosage. Therefore, caution is required with the coadministration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray and ketoconazole or other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors. Based on data with another glucocorticoid, fluticasone propionate, metabolized by CYP3A4, coadministration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray with the potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ritonavir is not recommended because of the risk of systemic effects secondary to increased exposure to fluticasone furoate. High exposure to corticosteroids increases the potential for systemic side effects, such as cortisol suppression. Enzyme induction and inhibition data suggest that fluticasone furoate is unlikely to significantly alter the cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism of other compounds at clinically relevant intranasal dosages. Potent inhibitors of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) may increase exposure to fluticasone furoate. •Coadministration of ritonavir is not recommended. (5.6, 7) •Use caution with coadministration of other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole. (5.6, 7)"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: •Epistaxis, ulcerations, Candida albicans infection, impaired wound healing, and nasal septal perforation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] •Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis effects, including growth reduction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)] The most common adverse reactions (>1% incidence) included headache, epistaxis, pharyngolaryngeal pain, nasal ulceration, back pain, pyrexia, and cough. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience The safety data described below reflect exposure to VERAMYST Nasal Spray in 1,563 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis in 9 controlled clinical trials of 2 to 12 weeks’ duration. The data from adults and adolescents are based upon 6 clinical trials in which 768 patients with seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis (473 females and 295 males aged 12 years and older) were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily for 2 to 6 weeks. The racial distribution of adult and adolescent patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was 82% white, 5% black, and 13% other. The data from pediatric patients are based upon 3 clinical trials in which 795 children with seasonal or perennial rhinitis (352 females and 443 males aged 2 to 11 years) were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 55 or 110 mcg once daily for 2 to 12 weeks. The racial distribution of pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was 75% white, 11% black, and 14% other. Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adults and Adolescents Aged 12 Years and Older Overall adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray and those receiving placebo. Less than 3% of patients in clinical trials discontinued treatment because of adverse reactions. The rate of withdrawal among patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray was similar or lower than the rate among patients receiving placebo. Table 1 displays the common adverse reactions (>1% in any patient group receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray) that occurred more frequently in patients aged 12 years and older treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with >1% Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials of 2 to 6 Weeks’ Duration with VERAMYST Nasal Spray in Adult and Adolescent Patients with Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Event Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older Vehicle Placebo (n = 774) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg Once Daily (n = 768) Headache 54 (7%) 72 (9%) Epistaxis 32 (4%) 45 (6%) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 8 (1%) 15 (2%) Nasal ulceration 3 (<1%) 11 (1%) Back pain 7 (<1%) 9 (1%) There were no differences in the incidence of adverse reactions based on gender or race. Clinical trials did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 years and older to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects. Pediatric Patients Aged 2 to 11 Years In the 3 clinical trials in pediatric patients aged 2 to <12 years, overall adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray and those receiving placebo. Table 2 displays the common adverse reactions (>3% in any patient group receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray), that occurred more frequently in patients aged 2 to 11 years treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray compared with placebo-treated patients. Table 2. Adverse Reactions with >3% Incidence in Controlled Clinical Trials of 2 to 12 Weeks’ Duration with VERAMYST Nasal Spray in Pediatric Patients with Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Event Pediatric Patients Aged 2 to <12 Years Vehicle Placebo (n = 429) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 55 mcg Once Daily (n = 369) VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg Once Daily (n = 426) Headache 31 (7%) 28 (8%) 33 (8%) Nasopharyngitis 21 (5%) 20 (5%) 21 (5%) Epistaxis 19 (4%) 17 (5%) 17 (4%) Pyrexia 7 (2%) 17 (5%) 19 (4%) Pharyngolaryngeal pain 14 (3%) 16 (4%) 12 (3%) Cough 12 (3%) 12 (3%) 16 (4%) There were no differences in the incidence of adverse reactions based on gender or race. Pyrexia occurred more frequently in children aged 2 to <6 years compared with children aged 6 to <12 years. Long-term (52-Week) Safety Trial In a 52-week, placebo-controlled, long-term safety trial, 605 patients (307 females and 298 males aged 12 years and older) with perennial allergic rhinitis were treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily for 12 months and 201 were treated with placebo nasal spray. While most adverse reactions were similar in type and rate between the treatment groups, epistaxis occurred more frequently in patients who received VERAMYST Nasal Spray (123/605, 20%) than in patients who received placebo (17/201, 8%). Epistaxis tended to be more severe in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray. All 17 reports of epistaxis that occurred in patients who received placebo were of mild intensity, while 83, 39, and 1 of the total 123 epistaxis events in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray were of mild, moderate, and severe intensity, respectively. No patient experienced a nasal septal perforation during this trial. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the following adverse reactions have been identified during postmarketing use of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone furoate or a combination of these factors. Immune System Disorders Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Rhinalgia, nasal discomfort (including nasal burning, nasal irritation, and nasal soreness), nasal dryness, and nasal septal perforation."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1) •Development of glaucoma or posterior subcapsular cataracts. Monitor patients closely with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. (5.2) •Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria, may occur after administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. (5.3) •Potential worsening of existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles in susceptible patients. Use caution in patients with the above because of the potential for worsening of these infections. (5.4) •Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue VERAMYST Nasal Spray slowly. (5.5) •Potential reduction in growth velocity in children. Monitor growth routinely in pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray. (5.7, 8.4) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis and Nasal Ulceration In clinical trials of 2 to 52 weeks’ duration, epistaxis and nasal ulcerations were observed more frequently and some epistaxis events were more severe in patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Candida Infection Evidence of localized infections of the nose with Candida albicans was seen on nasal exams in 7 of 2,745 patients treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray during clinical trials and was reported as an adverse event in 3 patients. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Therefore, patients using VERAMYST Nasal Spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients following the intranasal application of VERAMYST Nasal Spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should not use VERAMYST Nasal Spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Nasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure (IOP), glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Glaucoma and cataract formation was evaluated with intraocular pressure measurements and slit lamp examinations in 1 controlled 12-month trial in 806 adolescent and adult patients aged 12 years and older and in 1 controlled 12-week trial in 558 children aged 2 to 11 years. The patients had perennial allergic rhinitis and were treated with either VERAMYST Nasal Spray (110 mcg once daily in adult and adolescent patients and 55 or 110 mcg once daily in pediatric patients) or placebo. Intraocular pressure remained within the normal range (<21 mmHg) in ≥98% of the patients in any treatment group in both trials. However, in the 12-month trial in adolescents and adults, 12 patients, all treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily, had intraocular pressure measurements that increased above normal levels (≥21 mmHg). In the same trial, 7 patients (6 treated with VERAMYST Nasal Spray 110 mcg once daily and 1 patient treated with placebo) had cataracts identified during the trial that were not present at baseline. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions, Including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria, may occur after administration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray. Discontinue VERAMYST Nasal Spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In children or adults who have not had these diseases or have not been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox or measles develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract, untreated local or systemic fungal or bacterial infections, systemic viral or parasitic infections, or ocular herpes simplex because of the potential for worsening of these infections. 5.5 Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal Axis Effects Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal steroids are used at higher-than-recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of VERAMYST Nasal Spray should be discontinued slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal, e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression. Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In those patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Use of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors Coadministration with ritonavir is not recommended because of the risk of systemic effects secondary to increased exposure to fluticasone furoate. Use caution with the coadministration of VERAMYST Nasal Spray and other potent cytochrome P450 3A4(CYP3A4) inhibitors, such as ketoconazole [see Drug Interactions (7)]. 5.7 Effect on Growth Corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving VERAMYST Nasal Spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including VERAMYST Nasal Spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=56
Page 56 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE AND SALMETEROL"
        "brand_name": [
          "ADVAIR DISKUS"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS ADVAIR DISKUS has been used concomitantly with other drugs, including short-acting beta2-agonists, methylxanthines, and intranasal corticosteroids, commonly used in patients with asthma or COPD, without adverse drug reactions. No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with ADVAIR DISKUS. Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Use not recommended. May cause systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. (7.1) Monoamine oxidase inhibitors and tricyclic antidepressants: Use with extreme caution. May potentiate effect of salmeterol on vascular system. (7.2) Beta-blockers: Use with caution. May block bronchodilatory effects of beta-agonists and produce severe bronchospasm. (7.3) Diuretics: Use with caution. Electrocardiographic changes and/or hypokalemia associated with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics may worsen with concomitant beta-agonists. (7.4) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate and salmeterol, the individual components of ADVAIR DISKUS, are substrates of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir: Fluticasone Propionate: A drug interaction study with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole: Fluticasone Propionate: Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in increased plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and reduced plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol. Salmeterol: In a drug interaction study in 20 healthy subjects, coadministration of inhaled salmeterol (50 mcg twice daily) and oral ketoconazole (400 mg once daily) for 7 days resulted in greater systemic exposure to salmeterol (AUC increased 16-fold and Cmax increased 1.4-fold). Three (3) subjects were withdrawn due to beta2-agonist side effects (2 with prolonged QTc and 1 with palpitations and sinus tachycardia). Although there was no statistical effect on the mean QTc, coadministration of salmeterol and ketoconazole was associated with more frequent increases in QTc duration compared with salmeterol and placebo administration. 7.2 Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors and Tricyclic Antidepressants ADVAIR DISKUS should be administered with extreme caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants, or within 2 weeks of discontinuation of such agents, because the action of salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, on the vascular system may be potentiated by these agents. 7.3 Beta-Adrenergic Receptor Blocking Agents Beta-blockers not only block the pulmonary effect of beta-agonists, such as salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, but may also produce severe bronchospasm in patients with reversible obstructive airways disease. Therefore, patients with asthma or COPD should not normally be treated with beta-blockers. However, under certain circumstances, there may be no acceptable alternatives to the use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents for these patients; cardioselective beta-blockers could be considered, although they should be administered with caution. 7.4 Diuretics The ECG changes and/or hypokalemia that may result from the administration of nonpotassium-sparing diuretics (such as loop or thiazide diuretics) can be acutely worsened by beta-agonists, especially when the recommended dose of the beta-agonist is exceeded. Although the clinical relevance of these effects is not known, caution is advised in the coadministration of beta-agonists with nonpotassium-sparing diuretics."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data from a large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT Inhalation Aerosol) or placebo added to usual asthma therapy showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABA. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABA increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Candida albicans infection [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Pneumonia in patients with COPD [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] Growth effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Glaucoma and cataracts [see Warnings and Precautions (5.15)] Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥3%) are: Asthma: upper respiratory tract infection or inflammation, pharyngitis, dysphonia, oral candidiasis, bronchitis, cough, headaches, nausea and vomiting. (6.1) COPD: pneumonia, oral candidiasis, throat irritation, dysphonia, viral respiratory infections, headaches, musculoskeletal pain. (6.2) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience in Asthma Adult and Adolescent Patients Aged 12 Years and Older: The incidence of adverse reactions associated with ADVAIR DISKUS in Table 2 is based upon 2 placebo-controlled, 12-week, US clinical studies (Studies 1 and 2). A total of 705 adult and adolescent patients (349 females and 356 males) previously treated with salmeterol or inhaled corticosteroids were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS (100/50- or 250/50-mcg doses), fluticasone propionate inhalation powder (100- or 250-mcg doses), salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg, or placebo. The average duration of exposure was 60 to 79 days in the active treatment groups compared with 42 days in the placebo group. Table 2. Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS in Adult and Adolescent Patients With Asthma Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 (N = 92)% ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 84)% Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg (N = 90)% Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 84)% Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 180)% Placebo (N = 175)% Ear, nose, & throat Upper respiratory tractinfection 27 21 29 25 19 14 Pharyngitis 13 10 7 12 8 6 Upper respiratory inflammation 7 6 7 8 8 5 Sinusitis 4 5 6 1 3 4 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 2 2 4 <1 <1 Oral candidiasis 1 4 2 2 0 0 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 4 4 4 10 6 3 Bronchitis 2 8 1 2 2 2 Cough 3 6 0 0 3 2 Neurology Headaches 12 13 14 8 10 7 Gastrointestinal Nausea & vomiting 4 6 3 4 1 1 Gastrointestinal discomfort& pain 4 1 0 2 1 1 Diarrhea 4 2 2 2 1 1 Viral gastrointestinal infections 3 0 3 1 2 2 Non-site specific Candidiasis unspecified site 3 0 1 4 0 1 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 4 2 1 5 3 3 The types of adverse reactions and events reported in Study 3, a 28-week, non-US clinical study of 503 patients previously treated with inhaled corticosteroids who were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg and salmeterol inhalation powder 50 mcg used concurrently, or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 500 mcg, were similar to those reported in Table 2. Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with asthma treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: lymphatic signs and symptoms; muscle injuries; fractures; wounds and lacerations; contusions and hematomas; ear signs and symptoms; nasal signs and symptoms; nasal sinus disorders; keratitis and conjunctivitis; dental discomfort and pain; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral ulcerations; oral discomfort and pain; lower respiratory signs and symptoms; pneumonia; muscle stiffness, tightness, and rigidity; bone and cartilage disorders; sleep disorders; compressed nerve syndromes; viral infections; pain; chest symptoms; fluid retention; bacterial infections; unusual taste; viral skin infections; skin flakiness and acquired ichthyosis; disorders of sweat and sebum. Pediatric Patients Aged 4 to 11 Years: The safety data for pediatric patients aged 4 to 11 years is based upon 1 US trial of 12 weeks’ treatment duration. A total of 203 patients (74 females and 129 males) who were receiving inhaled corticosteroids at study entry were randomized to either ADVAIR DISKUS 100/50 or fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 100 mcg twice daily. Common adverse reactions (≥3% and greater than placebo) seen in the pediatric patients but not reported in the adult and adolescent clinical trials include: throat irritation and ear, nose, and throat infections. Laboratory Test Abnormalities: Elevation of hepatic enzymes was reported in ≥1% of patients in clinical trials. The elevations were transient and did not lead to discontinuation from the studies. In addition, there were no clinically relevant changes noted in glucose or potassium. 6.2 Clinical Trials Experience in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Short-Term (6 Months to 1 Year) Trials: The short-term safety data are based on exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 twice daily in one 6-month and two 1-year clinical trials. In the 6-month trial, a total of 723 adult patients (266 females and 457 males) were treated twice daily with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, fluticasone propionate inhalation powder 250 mcg, salmeterol inhalation powder, or placebo. The mean age of the patients was 64, and the majority (93%) was Caucasian. In this trial, 70% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS reported an adverse reaction compared with 64% on placebo. The average duration of exposure to ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was 141.3 days compared with 131.6 days for placebo. The incidence of adverse reactions in the 6-month study is shown in Table 3. Table 3. Overall Adverse Reactions With ≥3% Incidence With ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Associated With Chronic Bronchitis Adverse Event ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (N = 178)% Fluticasone Propionate 250 mcg (N = 183)% Salmeterol 50 mcg (N = 177)% Placebo (N = 185)% Ear, nose, & throat Candidiasis mouth/throat 10 6 3 1 Throat irritation 8 5 4 7 Hoarseness/dysphonia 5 3 <1 0 Sinusitis 3 8 5 3 Lower respiratory Viral respiratory infections 6 4 3 3 Neurology Headaches 16 11 10 12 Dizziness 4 <1 3 2 Non-site specific Fever 4 3 0 3 Malaise & fatigue 3 2 2 3 Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal pain 9 8 12 9 Muscle cramps & spasms 3 3 1 1 In the two 1-year studies, ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 was compared with salmeterol in 1,579 patients (863 males and 716 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (94%) was Caucasian. To be enrolled, all of the patients had to have had a COPD exacerbation in the previous 12 months. In this trial, 88% of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 86% of the patients treated with salmeterol reported an adverse event. The most common events that occurred with a frequency of >5% and more frequently in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, back pain, sinusitis, dizziness, nausea, pneumonia, candidiasis, and dysphonia. Overall, 55 (7%) of the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 25 (3%) of the patients treated with salmeterol developed pneumonia. The incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age, 9% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with 4% in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS less than 65 years of age. In the patients treated with salmeterol, the incidence of pneumonia was the same (3%) in both age-groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Long-Term (3-Year) Trial: The safety of ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international, 3-year study in 6,184 adult patients with COPD (4,684 males and 1,500 females). The mean age of the patients was 65, and the majority (82%) was Caucasian. The distribution of adverse events was similar to that seen in the 1-year trials with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50. In addition, pneumonia was reported in a significantly increased number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 and fluticasone propionate 500 mcg (16% and 14%, respectively) compared with patients treated with salmeterol 50 mcg or placebo (11% and 9%, respectively). When adjusted for time on treatment, the rates of pneumonia were 84 and 88 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the groups treated with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg and with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, respectively, compared with 52 events per 1,000 treatment-years in the salmeterol and placebo groups. Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Additional Adverse Reactions: Other adverse reactions not previously listed, whether considered drug-related or not by the investigators, that were reported more frequently by patients with COPD treated with ADVAIR DISKUS compared with patients treated with placebo include the following: syncope; ear, nose, and throat infections; ear signs and symptoms; laryngitis; nasal congestion/blockage; nasal sinus disorders; pharyngitis/throat infection; hypothyroidism; dry eyes; eye infections; gastrointestinal signs and symptoms; oral lesions; abnormal liver function tests; bacterial infections; edema and swelling; viral infections. Laboratory Abnormalities: There were no clinically relevant changes in these trials. Specifically, no increased reporting of neutrophilia or changes in glucose or potassium was noted. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during worldwide use of any formulation of ADVAIR, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol regardless of indication. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to ADVAIR DISKUS, fluticasone propionate, and/or salmeterol or a combination of these factors. Cardiac Disorders: Arrhythmias (including atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, supraventricular tachycardia), ventricular tachycardia. Endocrine Disorders: Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, growth velocity reduction in children/adolescents, hypercorticism. Eye Disorders: Glaucoma. Gastrointestinal Disorders: Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, xerostomia. Immune System Disorders: Immediate and delayed hypersensitivity reaction (including very rare anaphylactic reaction). Very rare anaphylactic reaction in patients with severe milk protein allergy. Metabolic and Nutrition Disorders: Hyperglycemia, weight gain. Musculoskeletal, Connective Tissue, and Bone Disorders: Arthralgia, cramps, myositis, osteoporosis. Nervous System Disorders: Paresthesia, restlessness. Psychiatric Disorders: Agitation, aggression, depression. Behavioral changes, including hyperactivity and irritability, have been reported very rarely and primarily in children. Reproductive System and Breast Disorders: Dysmenorrhea. Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders: Chest congestion; chest tightness; dyspnea; facial and oropharyngeal edema, immediate bronchospasm; paradoxical bronchospasm; tracheitis; wheezing; reports of upper respiratory symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling such as stridor or choking. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: Ecchymoses, photodermatitis. Vascular Disorders: Pallor."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Asthma-related death: LABAs increase the risk. Prescribe only for recommended patient populations. (5.1) Deterioration of disease and acute episodes: Do not initiate in acutely deteriorating asthma or to treat acute symptoms. (5.2) Use with additional LABA: Do not use in combination because of risk of overdose. (5.3) Localized infections: Candida albicans infection of the mouth and throat may occur. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the oral cavity. Advise patients to rinse the mouth following inhalation. (5.4) Pneumonia: Increased risk in patients with COPD. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of pneumonia. (5.5) Immunosuppression: Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis, fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.6) Transferring patients from systemic corticosteroids: Risk of impaired adrenal function when transferring from oral steroids. Taper patients slowly from systemic corticosteroids if transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.7) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression: May occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS slowly. (5.8) Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir): Risk of increased systemic corticosteroid and cardiovascular effects. Use not recommended with ADVAIR DISKUS. (5.9) Paradoxical bronchospasm: Discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS and institute alternative therapy if paradoxical bronchospasm occurs. (5.10) Patients with cardiovascular or central nervous system disorders: Use with caution because of beta-adrenergic stimulation. (5.12) Decreases in bone mineral density: Assess bone mineral density initially and periodically thereafter. (5.13) Effects on growth: Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.14) Glaucoma and cataracts: Close monitoring is warranted. (5.15) Metabolic effects: Be alert to eosinophilic conditions, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. (5.16, 5.18) Coexisting conditions: Use with caution in patients with convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis, diabetes mellitus, and ketoacidosis. (5.17) 5.1 Asthma-Related Death LABAs, such as salmeterol, one of the active ingredients in ADVAIR DISKUS, increase the risk of asthma-related death. Currently available data are inadequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids or other long-term asthma control drugs mitigates the increased risk of asthma-related death from LABAs. Available data from controlled clinical trials suggest that LABAs increase the risk of asthma-related hospitalization in pediatric and adolescent patients. Therefore, when treating patients with asthma, physicians should only prescribe ADVAIR DISKUS for patients not adequately controlled on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid, or whose disease severity clearly warrants initiation of treatment with both an inhaled corticosteroid and a LABA. Once asthma control is achieved and maintained, assess the patient at regular intervals and step down therapy (e.g., discontinue ADVAIR DISKUS) if possible without loss of asthma control and maintain the patient on a long-term asthma control medication, such as an inhaled corticosteroid. Do not use ADVAIR DISKUS for patients whose asthma is adequately controlled on low- or medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids. A large placebo-controlled US study that compared the safety of salmeterol with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol. The Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) was a randomized double-blind study that enrolled LABA-naive patients with asthma to assess the safety of salmeterol (SEREVENT® Inhalation Aerosol) 42 mcg twice daily over 28 weeks compared with placebo when added to usual asthma therapy. A planned interim analysis was conducted when approximately half of the intended number of patients had been enrolled (N = 26,355), which led to premature termination of the study. The results of the interim analysis showed that patients receiving salmeterol were at increased risk for fatal asthma events (see Table 1 and Figure 1). In the total population, a higher rate of asthma-related death occurred in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.10% versus 0.02%, relative risk: 4.37 [95% CI: 1.25, 15.34]). Post-hoc subpopulation analyses were performed. In Caucasians, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than in patients treated with placebo (0.07% versus 0.01%, relative risk: 5.82 [95% CI: 0.70, 48.37]). In African Americans also, asthma-related death occurred at a higher rate in patients treated with salmeterol than those treated with placebo (0.31% versus 0.04%, relative risk: 7.26 [95% CI: 0.89, 58.94]). Although the relative risks of asthma-related death were similar in Caucasians and African Americans, the estimate of excess deaths in patients treated with salmeterol was greater in African Americans because there was a higher overall rate of asthma-related death in African American patients (see Table 1). Given the similar basic mechanisms of action of beta2-agonists, the findings seen in the SMART study are considered a class effect. Post-hoc analyses in pediatric patients aged 12 to 18 years were also performed. Pediatric patients accounted for approximately 12% of patients in each treatment arm. Respiratory-related death or life-threatening experience occurred at a similar rate in the salmeterol group (0.12% [2/1,653]) and the placebo group (0.12% [2/1,622]; relative risk: 1.0 [95% CI: 0.1, 7.2]). All-cause hospitalization, however, was increased in the salmeterol group (2% [35/1,653]) versus the placebo group (<1% [16/1,622]; relative risk: 2.1 [95% CI: 1.1, 3.7]). The data from the SMART study are not adequate to determine whether concurrent use of inhaled corticosteroids, such as fluticasone propionate, the other active ingredient in ADVAIR DISKUS, or other long-term asthma control therapy mitigates the risk of asthma-related death. Table 1. Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) Salmeteroln (%a) Placebon (%a) Relative Riskb (95% ConfidenceInterval) Excess Deaths Expressed per 10,000 Patientsc (95% ConfidenceInterval) Total Populationd Salmeterol: N = 13,176 13 (0.10%) 4.37 (1.25, 15.34) 8 (3, 13) Placebo: N = 13,179 3 (0.02%) Caucasian Salmeterol: N = 9,281 6 (0.07%) 5.82 (0.70, 48.37) 6 (1, 10) Placebo: N = 9,361 1 (0.01%) African American Salmeterol: N = 2,366 7 (0.31%) 7.26 (0.89, 58.94) 27 (8, 46) Placebo: N = 2,319 1 (0.04%) aLife-table 28-week estimate, adjusted according to the patients’ actual lengths of exposure to study treatment to account for early withdrawal of patients from the study. bRelative risk is the ratio of the rate of asthma-related death in the salmeterol group and the rate in the placebo group. The relative risk indicates how many more times likely an asthma-related death occurred in the salmeterol group than in the placebo group in a 28-week treatment period. cEstimate of the number of additional asthma-related deaths in patients treated with salmeterol in SMART, assuming 10,000 patients received salmeterol for a 28-week treatment period. Estimate calculated as the difference between the salmeterol and placebo groups in the rates of asthma-related death multiplied by 10,000. dThe Total Population includes the following ethnic origins listed on the case report form: Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian, and “Other.” In addition, the Total Population includes those patients whose ethnic origin was not reported. The results for Caucasian and African American subpopulations are shown above. No asthma-related deaths occurred in the Hispanic (salmeterol n = 996, placebo n = 999), Asian (salmeterol n = 173, placebo n = 149), or “Other” (salmeterol n = 230, placebo n = 224) subpopulations. One asthma-related death occurred in the placebo group in the subpopulation whose ethnic origin was not reported (salmeterol n = 130, placebo n = 127). Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment A 16-week clinical study performed in the United Kingdom, the Salmeterol Nationwide Surveillance (SNS) study, showed results similar to the SMART study. In the SNS study, the rate of asthma-related death was numerically, though not statistically significantly, greater in patients with asthma treated with salmeterol (42 mcg twice daily) than those treated with albuterol (180 mcg 4 times daily) added to usual asthma therapy. The SNS and SMART studies enrolled patients with asthma. No studies have been conducted that were primarily designed to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by LABAs. Figure 1. Cumulative Incidence of Asthma-Related Deaths in the 28-Week Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART), by Duration of Treatment 5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes ADVAIR DISKUS should not be initiated in patients during rapidly deteriorating or potentially life-threatening episodes of asthma or COPD. ADVAIR DISKUS has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating asthma or COPD. The initiation of ADVAIR DISKUS in this setting is not appropriate. Serious acute respiratory events, including fatalities, have been reported when salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, has been initiated in patients with significantly worsening or acutely deteriorating asthma. In most cases, these have occurred in patients with severe asthma (e.g., patients with a history of corticosteroid dependence, low pulmonary function, intubation, mechanical ventilation, frequent hospitalizations, previous life-threatening acute asthma exacerbations) and in some patients with acutely deteriorating asthma (e.g., patients with significantly increasing symptoms; increasing need for inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists; decreasing response to usual medications; increasing need for systemic corticosteroids; recent emergency room visits; deteriorating lung function). However, these events have occurred in a few patients with less severe asthma as well. It was not possible from these reports to determine whether salmeterol contributed to these events. Increasing use of inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists is a marker of deteriorating asthma. In this situation, the patient requires immediate reevaluation with reassessment of the treatment regimen, giving special consideration to the possible need for replacing the current strength of ADVAIR DISKUS with a higher strength, adding additional inhaled corticosteroid, or initiating systemic corticosteroids. Patients should not use more than 1 inhalation twice daily (morning and evening) of ADVAIR DISKUS. ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. An inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist, not ADVAIR DISKUS, should be used to relieve acute symptoms such as shortness of breath. When prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS, the physician must also provide the patient with an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist (e.g., albuterol) for treatment of acute symptoms, despite regular twice-daily (morning and evening) use of ADVAIR DISKUS. When beginning treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS, patients who have been taking oral or inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., 4 times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs. 5.3 Excessive Use of ADVAIR DISKUS and Use With Other Long-Acting Beta2-Agonists As with other inhaled drugs containing beta2-adrenergic agents, ADVAIR DISKUS should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medications containing LABAs, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. Patients using ADVAIR DISKUS should not use an additional LABA (e.g., salmeterol, formoterol fumarate, arformoterol tartrate) for any reason, including prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm (EIB) or the treatment of asthma or COPD. 5.4 Local Effects In clinical studies, the development of localized infections of the mouth and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS. When such an infection develops, it should be treated with appropriate local or systemic (i.e., oral antifungal) therapy while treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS continues, but at times therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS may need to be interrupted. Patients should rinse the mouth after inhalation of ADVAIR DISKUS. 5.5 Pneumonia Physicians should remain vigilant for the possible development of pneumonia in patients with COPD as the clinical features of pneumonia and exacerbations frequently overlap. Lower respiratory tract infections, including pneumonia, have been reported in patients with COPD following the inhaled administration of corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate and ADVAIR DISKUS. In 2 replicate 12-month studies of 1,579 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 (7%) than in those receiving salmeterol 50 mcg (3%). The incidence of pneumonia in the patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS was higher in patients over 65 years of age (9%) compared with the incidence in patients less than 65 years of age (4%). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] In a 3-year study of 6,184 patients with COPD, there was a higher incidence of pneumonia reported in patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 compared with placebo (16% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 14% with fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, 11% with salmeterol 50 mcg, and 9% with placebo). Similar to what was seen in the 1-year studies with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50, the incidence of pneumonia was higher in patients over 65 years of age (18% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 10% with placebo) compared with patients less than 65 years of age (14% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 versus 8% with placebo). [See Adverse Reactions (6.2), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] 5.6 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG and IG prescribing information.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Inhaled corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculosis infections of the respiratory tract; untreated systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.7 Transferring Patients From Systemic Corticosteroid Therapy Particular care is needed for patients who have been transferred from systemically active corticosteroids to inhaled corticosteroids because deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have occurred in patients with asthma during and after transfer from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids. After withdrawal from systemic corticosteroids, a number of months are required for recovery of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Patients who have been previously maintained on 20 mg or more per day of prednisone (or its equivalent) may be most susceptible, particularly when their systemic corticosteroids have been almost completely withdrawn. During this period of HPA suppression, patients may exhibit signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to trauma, surgery, or infection (particularly gastroenteritis) or other conditions associated with severe electrolyte loss. Although ADVAIR DISKUS may provide control of asthma symptoms during these episodes, in recommended doses it supplies less than normal physiological amounts of glucocorticoid systemically and does NOT provide the mineralocorticoid activity that is necessary for coping with these emergencies. During periods of stress or a severe asthma attack, patients who have been withdrawn from systemic corticosteroids should be instructed to resume oral corticosteroids (in large doses) immediately and to contact their physicians for further instruction. These patients should also be instructed to carry a warning card indicating that they may need supplementary systemic corticosteroids during periods of stress or a severe asthma attack. Patients requiring oral corticosteroids should be weaned slowly from systemic corticosteroid use after transferring to ADVAIR DISKUS. Prednisone reduction can be accomplished by reducing the daily prednisone dose by 2.5 mg on a weekly basis during therapy with ADVAIR DISKUS. Lung function (mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] or morning peak expiratory flow [PEF]), beta-agonist use, and asthma symptoms should be carefully monitored during withdrawal of oral corticosteroids. In addition to monitoring asthma signs and symptoms, patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, such as fatigue, lassitude, weakness, nausea and vomiting, and hypotension. Transfer of patients from systemic corticosteroid therapy to inhaled corticosteroids or ADVAIR DISKUS may unmask conditions previously suppressed by the systemic corticosteroid therapy (e.g., rhinitis, conjunctivitis, eczema, arthritis, eosinophilic conditions). Some patients may experience symptoms of systemically active corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression) despite maintenance or even improvement of respiratory function. 5.8 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression Fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, will often help control asthma symptoms with less suppression of HPA function than therapeutically equivalent oral doses of prednisone. Since fluticasone propionate is absorbed into the circulation and can be systemically active at higher doses, the beneficial effects of ADVAIR DISKUS in minimizing HPA dysfunction may be expected only when recommended dosages are not exceeded and individual patients are titrated to the lowest effective dose. A relationship between plasma levels of fluticasone propionate and inhibitory effects on stimulated cortisol production has been shown after 4 weeks of treatment with fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol. Since individual sensitivity to effects on cortisol production exists, physicians should consider this information when prescribing ADVAIR DISKUS. Because of the possibility of systemic absorption of inhaled corticosteroids, patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS should be observed carefully for any evidence of systemic corticosteroid effects. Particular care should be taken in observing patients postoperatively or during periods of stress for evidence of inadequate adrenal response. It is possible that systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression (including adrenal crisis) may appear in a small number of patients, particularly when fluticasone propionate is administered at higher than recommended doses over prolonged periods of time. If such effects occur, the dosage of ADVAIR DISKUS should be reduced slowly, consistent with accepted procedures for reducing systemic corticosteroids and for management of asthma symptoms. 5.9 Drug Interactions With Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin) with ADVAIR DISKUS is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid and increased cardiovascular adverse effects may occur [see Drug interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.10 Paradoxical Bronchospasm and Upper Airway Symptoms As with other inhaled medications, ADVAIR DISKUS can produce paradoxical bronchospasm, which may be life threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs following dosing with ADVAIR DISKUS, it should be treated immediately with an inhaled, short-acting bronchodilator; ADVAIR DISKUS should be discontinued immediately; and alternative therapy should be instituted. Upper airway symptoms of laryngeal spasm, irritation, or swelling, such as stridor and choking, have been reported in patients receiving fluticasone propionate and salmeterol. 5.11 Immediate Hypersensitivity Reactions Immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after administration of ADVAIR DISKUS, as demonstrated by cases of urticaria, angioedema, rash, and bronchospasm. There have been reports of anaphylactic reactions in patients with severe milk protein allergy; therefore, patients with severe milk protein allergy should not take ADVAIR DISKUS [see Contraindications (4)]. 5.12 Cardiovascular and Central Nervous System Effects Excessive beta-adrenergic stimulation has been associated with seizures, angina, hypertension or hypotension, tachycardia with rates up to 200 beats/min, arrhythmias, nervousness, headache, tremor, palpitation, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, malaise, and insomnia [see Overdosage (10)]. Therefore, ADVAIR DISKUS, like all products containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, and hypertension. Salmeterol, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. Although such effects are uncommon after administration of salmeterol at recommended doses, if they occur, the drug may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiogram (ECG) changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Large doses of inhaled or oral salmeterol (12 to 20 times the recommended dose) have been associated with clinically significant prolongation of the QTc interval, which has the potential for producing ventricular arrhythmias. Fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs. 5.13 Reduction in Bone Mineral Density Decreases in bone mineral density (BMD) have been observed with long-term administration of products containing inhaled corticosteroids. The clinical significance of small changes in BMD with regard to long-term consequences such as fracture is unknown. Patients with major risk factors for decreased bone mineral content, such as prolonged immobilization, family history of osteoporosis, post-menopausal status, tobacco use, advanced age, poor nutrition, or chronic use of drugs that can reduce bone mass (e.g., anticonvulsants, oral corticosteroids) should be monitored and treated with established standards of care. Since patients with COPD often have multiple risk factors for reduced BMD, assessment of BMD is recommended prior to initiating ADVAIR DISKUS and periodically thereafter. If significant reductions in BMD are seen and ADVAIR DISKUS is still considered medically important for that patient’s COPD therapy, use of medication to treat or prevent osteoporosis should be strongly considered. 2-Year Fluticasone Propionate Study: A 2-year study of 160 patients (females aged 18 to 40 years, males 18 to 50) with asthma receiving CFC-propelled fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol 88 or 440 mcg twice daily demonstrated no statistically significant changes in BMD at any time point (24, 52, 76, and 104 weeks of double-blind treatment) as assessed by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry at lumbar regions L1 through L4. 3-Year Bone Mineral Density Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 250/50 or salmeterol 50 mcg on BMD at the L1-L4 lumbar spine and total hip were evaluated in 186 patients with COPD (aged 43 to 87 years) in a 3-year double-blind study. Of those enrolled, 108 patients (72 males and 36 females) were followed for the entire 3 years. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 6-month intervals. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study regarding BMD decline in patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS versus salmeterol due to the inconsistency of treatment differences across gender and between lumbar spine and total hip. In this study there were 7 non-traumatic fractures reported in 5 patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS and 1 non-traumatic fracture in 1 patient treated with salmeterol. None of the non-traumatic fractures occurred in the vertebrae, hip, or long bones. 3-Year Survival Study: Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on BMD was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients (females and males aged 40 to 80 years) with COPD in the 3-year survival study. BMD evaluations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions cannot be drawn from this study because of the large number of drop outs (>50%) before the end of the follow-up and the maldistribution of covariates among the treatment groups that can affect BMD. Fracture risk was estimated for the entire population of patients with COPD in the survival study (N = 6,184). The probability of a fracture over 3 years was 6.3% for ADVAIR DISKUS, 5.4% for fluticasone propionate, 5.1% for salmeterol, and 5.1% for placebo. 5.14 Effect on Growth Orally inhaled corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients. Monitor the growth of pediatric patients receiving ADVAIR DISKUS routinely (e.g., via stadiometry). To minimize the systemic effects of orally inhaled corticosteroids, including ADVAIR DISKUS, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms. [See Dosage and Administration (2.1), Use in Specific Populations (8.4).] 5.15 Glaucoma and Cataracts Glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts have been reported in patients with asthma and COPD following the long-term administration of inhaled corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate, a component of ADVAIR DISKUS. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. Effects of treatment with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, fluticasone propionate 500 mcg, salmeterol 50 mcg, or placebo on development of cataracts or glaucoma was evaluated in a subset of 658 patients with COPD in the 3-year survival study. Ophthalmic examinations were conducted at baseline and at 48, 108, and 158 weeks. Conclusions about cataracts cannot be drawn from this study because the high incidence of cataracts at baseline (61% to 71%) resulted in an inadequate number of patients treated with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50 who were eligible and available for evaluation of cataracts at the end of the study (n = 53). The incidence of newly diagnosed glaucoma was 2% with ADVAIR DISKUS 500/50, 5% with fluticasone propionate, 0% with salmeterol, and 2% with placebo. 5.16 Eosinophilic Conditions and Churg-Strauss Syndrome In rare cases, patients on inhaled fluticasone propionate may present with systemic eosinophilic conditions. Some of these patients have clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome, a condition that is often treated with systemic corticosteroid therapy. These events usually, but not always, have been associated with the reduction and/or withdrawal of oral corticosteroid therapy following the introduction of fluticasone propionate. Cases of serious eosinophilic conditions have also been reported with other inhaled corticosteroids in this clinical setting. Physicians should be alert to eosinophilia, vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications, and/or neuropathy presenting in their patients. A causal relationship between fluticasone propionate and these underlying conditions has not been established. 5.17 Coexisting Conditions ADVAIR DISKUS, like all medications containing sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis and in those who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-adrenoceptor agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate preexisting diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis. 5.18 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia Beta-adrenergic agonist medications may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, possibly through intracellular shunting, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Clinically significant changes in blood glucose and/or serum potassium were seen infrequently during clinical studies with ADVAIR DISKUS at recommended doses."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=57
Page 57 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS In controlled US studies, more than 3,300 patients with seasonal allergic, perennial allergic, or perennial nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical studies have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by patients treated with the vehicle itself. The complaints did not usually interfere with treatment. Less than 2% of patients in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse events; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. Systemic corticosteroid side effects were not reported during controlled clinical studies up to 6 months’ duration with fluticasone propionate nasal spray. If recommended doses are exceeded, however, or if individuals are particularly sensitive or taking fluticasone propionate nasal spray in conjunction with administration of other corticosteroids, symptoms of hypercorticism, e.g., Cushing syndrome, could occur. The following incidence of common adverse reactions (>3%, where incidence in fluticasone propionate-treated subjects exceeded placebo) is based upon seven controlled clinical trials in which 536 patients (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and two controlled clinical trials in which 246 patients (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 200 mcg once daily over 6 months. Also included in the table are adverse events from two studies in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Overall Adverse Experiences With >3% Incidence on Fluticasone Propionate in Controlled Clinical Trials With Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray in Patients ≥ 4 Years With Seasonal or Perennial Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Experience Vehicle Placebo (N = 758) % Fluticasone Propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (N = 167) % Fluticasone Propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (N = 782) % Headache 14.6 6.6 16.1 Pharyngitis 7.2 6 7.8 Epistaxis 5.4 6 6.9 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.6 2.4 3.2 Nausea/vomiting 2 4.8 2.6 Asthma symptoms 2.9 7.2 3.3 Cough 2.8 3.6 3.8 Other adverse events that occurred in ≤3% but ≥1% of patients and that were more common with fluticasone propionate (with uncertain relationship to treatment) included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, bronchitis. Observed During Clinical PracticeIn addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate in clinical practice. Because they are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, estimates of frequency cannot be made. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. GeneralHypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear, Nose, and ThroatAlteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. EyeDryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate nasal spray (see PRECAUTIONS: Pediatric Use)."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Fluticasone+AND+Propionate+AND+Nasal+AND+Spray&limit=1&skip=58
Page 58 of 59
        "generic_name": [
          "FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Fluticasone Propionate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole): Use not recommended. May increase risk of systemic corticosteroid effects. (7.1) 7.1 Inhibitors of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Fluticasone propionate is a substrate of CYP3A4. The use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur. Ritonavir A drug interaction trial with fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray in healthy subjects has shown that ritonavir (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) can significantly increase plasma fluticasone propionate exposure, resulting in significantly reduced serum cortisol concentrations [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. During postmarketing use, there have been reports of clinically significant drug interactions in patients receiving fluticasone propionate products, including fluticasone propionate, with ritonavir, resulting in systemic corticosteroid effects including Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal suppression. Ketoconazole Coadministration of orally inhaled fluticasone propionate (1,000 mcg) and ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) resulted in a 1.9-fold increase in plasma fluticasone propionate exposure and a 45% decrease in plasma cortisol area under the curve (AUC), but had no effect on urinary excretion of cortisol.",
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Systemic and local corticosteroid use may result in the following: Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Cataracts and glaucoma [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] Immunosuppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] Effect on growth [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] The most common adverse reactions (>3%) are headache, pharyngitis, epistaxis, nasal burning/nasal irritation, nausea/vomiting, asthma symptoms, and cough. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Apotex Corp. at 1-800-706-5575 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. In controlled US clinical trials, more than 3,300 subjects with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis received treatment with intranasal fluticasone propionate. In general, adverse reactions in clinical trials have been primarily associated with irritation of the nasal mucous membranes, and the adverse reactions were reported with approximately the same frequency by subjects treated with placebo. Less than 2% of subjects in clinical trials discontinued because of adverse reactions; this rate was similar for vehicle placebo and active comparators. The safety data described below are based on 7 placebo-controlled clinical trials in subjects with allergic rhinitis. The 7 trials included 536 subjects (57 girls and 108 boys aged 4 to 11 years, 137 female and 234 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 2 to 4 weeks and 2 placebo-controlled clinical trials which included 246 subjects (119 female and 127 male adolescents and adults) treated with fluticasone propionate 200 mcg once daily over 6 months (Table 1). Also included in Table 1 are adverse reactions from 2 trials in which 167 children (45 girls and 122 boys aged 4 to 11 years) were treated with fluticasone propionate 100 mcg once daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Table 1. Adverse Reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray with >3% Incidence and More Common than Placebo in Subjects ≥4 Years with Allergic Rhinitis Adverse Reaction Fluticasone propionate 100 mcg Once Daily (n = 167) % Fluticasone propionate 200 mcg Once Daily (n = 782) % Placebo (n=758)% Headache 6.6 16.1 14.6 Pharyngitis 6.0 7.8 7.2 Epistaxis 6.0 6.9 5.4 Nasal burning/nasal irritation 2.4 3.2 2.6 Nausea/vomiting 4.8 2.6 2.0 Asthma symptoms 7.2 3.3 2.9 Cough 3.6 3.8 2.8 Other adverse reactions with fluticasone propionate nasal spray observed with an incidence less than or equal to 3% but greater than or equal to 1% and more common than with placebo included: blood in nasal mucus, runny nose, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, flu-like symptoms, aches and pains, dizziness, and bronchitis. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse events reported from clinical trials, the following adverse events have been identified during postapproval use of intranasal fluticasone propionate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. These events have been chosen for inclusion due to either their seriousness, frequency of reporting, or causal connection to fluticasone propionate or a combination of these factors. General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, skin rash, edema of the face and tongue, pruritus, urticaria, bronchospasm, wheezing, dyspnea, and anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, which in rare instances were severe. Ear and Labyrinth Disorders Alteration or loss of sense of taste and/or smell and, rarely, nasal septal perforation, nasal ulcer, sore throat, throat irritation and dryness, cough, hoarseness, and voice changes. Eye Disorders Dryness and irritation, conjunctivitis, blurred vision, glaucoma, increased intraocular pressure, and cataracts. Cases of growth suppression have been reported for intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)].",
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Epistaxis, nasal ulceration, Candida albicans infection, nasal septal perforation, and impaired wound healing. Monitor patients periodically for signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Avoid use in patients with recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma. (5.1) Close monitoring for glaucoma and cataracts is warranted. (5.2) Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur. (5.3) Potential worsening of infections (e.g., existing tuberculosis; fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection; ocular herpes simplex). Use with caution in patients with these infections. More serious or even fatal course of chickenpox or measles can occur in susceptible patients. (5.4) Hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may occur with very high dosages or at the regular dosage in susceptible individuals. If such changes occur, discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray slowly. (5.5) Monitor growth of pediatric patients. (5.7) 5.1 Local Nasal Effects Epistaxis In clinical trials of 2 to 26 weeks’ duration, epistaxis was observed more frequently in subjects treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray than those who received placebo [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Nasal Ulceration Postmarketing cases of nasal ulceration have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Candida Infection In clinical trials with fluticasone propionate administered intranasally, the development of localized infections of the nose and pharynx with Candida albicans has occurred. When such an infection develops, it may require treatment with appropriate local therapy and discontinuation of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Patients using fluticasone propionate nasal spray over several months or longer should be examined periodically for evidence of Candida infection or other signs of adverse effects on the nasal mucosa. Nasal Septal Perforation Postmarketing cases of nasal septal perforation have been reported in patients treated with fluticasone propionate nasal spray [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Impaired Wound Healing Because of the inhibitory effect of corticosteroids on wound healing, patients who have experienced recent nasal ulcers, nasal surgery, or nasal trauma should avoid using fluticasone propionate nasal spray until healing has occurred. 5.2 Glaucoma and Cataracts Use of intranasal and inhaled corticosteroids may result in the development of glaucoma and/or cataracts. Therefore, close monitoring is warranted in patients with a change in vision or with a history of increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and/or cataracts. 5.3 Hypersensitivity Reactions including Anaphylaxis Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, contact dermatitis, and rash) have been reported after administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. Discontinue fluticasone propionate nasal spray if such reactions occur [see Contraindications (4)]. Rarely, immediate hypersensitivity reactions may occur after the administration of fluticasone propionate nasal spray. 5.4 Immunosuppression Persons who are using drugs that suppress the immune system are more susceptible to infections than healthy individuals. Chickenpox and measles, for example, can have a more serious or even fatal course in susceptible children or adults using corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases or been properly immunized, particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route, and duration of corticosteroid administration affect the risk of developing a disseminated infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If a patient is exposed to chickenpox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated. If a patient is exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin (IG) may be indicated. (See the complete prescribing information for VZIG and IG.) If chickenpox develops, treatment with antiviral agents may be considered. Intranasal corticosteroids should be used with caution, if at all, in patients with active or quiescent tuberculous infections of the respiratory tract; systemic fungal, bacterial, viral, or parasitic infections; or ocular herpes simplex. 5.5 Hypercorticism and Adrenal Suppression When intranasal corticosteroids are used at higher than recommended dosages or in susceptible individuals at recommended dosages, systemic corticosteroid effects such as hypercorticism and adrenal suppression may appear. If such changes occur, the dosage of fluticasone propionate nasal spray should be discontinued slowly consistent with accepted procedures for discontinuing oral corticosteroid therapy. The replacement of a systemic corticosteroid with a topical corticosteroid can be accompanied by signs of adrenal insufficiency. In addition, some patients may experience symptoms of corticosteroid withdrawal (e.g., joint and/or muscular pain, lassitude, depression). Patients previously treated for prolonged periods with systemic corticosteroids and transferred to topical corticosteroids should be carefully monitored for acute adrenal insufficiency in response to stress. In patients who have asthma or other clinical conditions requiring long-term systemic corticosteroid treatment, rapid decreases in systemic corticosteroid dosages may cause a severe exacerbation of their symptoms. 5.6 Drug Interactions with Strong Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibitors The use of strong cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, atazanavir, clarithromycin, indinavir, itraconazole, nefazodone, nelfinavir, saquinavir, ketoconazole, telithromycin, conivaptan, lopinavir, nefazodone, voriconazole) with fluticasone propionate nasal spray is not recommended because increased systemic corticosteroid adverse effects may occur [see Drug Interactions (7.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 5.7 Effect on Growth Intranasal corticosteroids may cause a reduction in growth velocity when administered to pediatric patients [see Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]. Monitor the growth routinely of pediatric patients receiving fluticasone propionate nasal spray. To minimize the systemic effects of intranasal corticosteroids, including fluticasone propionate nasal spray, titrate each patient’s dose to the lowest dosage that effectively controls his/her symptoms [see Dosage and Administration (2), Use in Specific Populations (8.4)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
