https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Ibuprofen+AND+Lysine+AND+Injection&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "IBUPROFEN LYSINE"
        "brand_name": [
          "NeoProfen"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interactions of NeoProfen in neonates have not been assessed. Drug interactions in neonates have not been assessed. (7)"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience The most frequently reported adverse events with NeoProfen were as shown in Table 1. 6.2 Renal Function Compared to placebo, there was a small decrease in urinary output in the ibuprofen group on days 2-6 of life, with a compensatory increase in urine output on day 9. In other studies, adverse events classified as renal insufficiency including oliguria, elevated BUN, elevated creatinine, or renal failure were reported in ibuprofen treated infants. 6.3 Additional Adverse Events The adverse events reported in the multicenter study and of unknown association include tachycardia, cardiac failure, abdominal distension, gastroesophageal reflux, gastritis, ileus, inguinal hernia, injection site reactions, cholestasis, various infections, feeding problems, convulsions, jaundice, hypotension, and various laboratory abnormalities including neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and hyperglycemia. 6.4 Post-marketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified from spontaneous post-marketing reports or published literature: gastrointestinal perforation, necrotizing enterocolitis, and pulmonary hypertension. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency, or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Most common adverse reactions (≥10%) are sepsis, anemia, intraventricular bleeding, apnea, gastrointestinal disorders, impaired renal function, respiratory infection, skin lesions, hypoglycemia, hypocalcemia, respiratory failure. (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Recordati Rare Diseases at 1-888-575-8344, or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. Table 1"
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5.1 General There are no long-term evaluations of the infants treated with ibuprofen at durations greater than the 36 weeks post-conceptual age observation period. Ibuprofen’s effects on neurodevelopmental outcome and growth as well as disease processes associated with prematurity (such as retinopathy of prematurity and chronic lung disease) have not been assessed. 5.2 Infection NeoProfen may alter the usual signs of infection. The physician must be continually on the alert and should use the drug with extra care in the presence of controlled infection and in infants at risk of infection. 5.3 Platelet Aggregation NeoProfen, like other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, can inhibit platelet aggregation. Preterm infants should be observed for signs of bleeding. Ibuprofen has been shown to prolong bleeding time (but within the normal range) in normal adult subjects. This effect may be exaggerated in patients with underlying hemostatic defects (see CONTRAINDICATIONS). 5.4 Bilirubin Displacement Ibuprofen has been shown to displace bilirubin from albumin binding-sites; therefore, it should be used with caution in patients with elevated total bilirubin. 5.5 Administration NeoProfen should be administered carefully to avoid extravascular injection or leakage, as solution may be irritating to tissue. NeoProfen has not been assessed for neurodevelopmental outcome and growth (5.1) NeoProfen may alter the usual signs of infection (5.2) NeoProfen can inhibit platelet aggregation, and has been shown to prolong bleeding time in normal adult subjects (5.3) Ibuprofen has been shown to displace bilirubin from albumin binding-sites (5.4) NeoProfen should be administered carefully to avoid extravascular injection or leakage (5.5)"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
