https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Micronized+AND+Glyburide+AND+Tablets&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "GLYBURIDE (MICRONIZED) AND METFORMIN HYDROCHLORIDE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Glyburide (micronized) and Metformin Hydrochloride"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug Interactions Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride Certain drugs tend to produce hyperglycemia and may lead to loss of blood glucose control. These drugs include the thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid products, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics, calcium channel blocking drugs, and isoniazid. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride, the patient should be closely observed for loss of blood glucose control. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. Metformin is negligibly bound to plasma proteins and is, therefore, less likely to interact with highly protein-bound drugs such as salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, and probenecid as compared to sulfonylureas, which are extensively bound to serum proteins. Glyburide The hypoglycemic action of sulfonylureas may be potentiated by certain drugs including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents and other drugs that are highly protein bound, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, probenecid, coumarins, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, and beta adrenergic blocking agents. When such drugs are administered to a patient receiving Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride, the patient should be observed closely for hypoglycemia. When such drugs are withdrawn from a patient receiving Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride, the patient should be observed closely for loss of blood glucose control. A possible interaction between glyburide and ciprofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, has been reported, resulting in a potentiation of the hypoglycemic action of glyburide. The mechanism for this interaction is not known. A potential interaction between oral miconazole and oral hypoglycemic agents leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with the intravenous, topical, or vaginal preparations of miconazole is not known. Metformin Hydrochloride Furosemide A single-dose, metformin-furosemide drug interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated that pharmacokinetic parameters of both compounds were affected by co-administration. Furosemide increased the metformin plasma and blood Cmax by 22% and blood AUC by 15%, without any significant change in metformin renal clearance. When administered with metformin, the Cmax and AUC of furosemide were 31% and 12% smaller, respectively, than when administered alone, and the terminal half-life was decreased by 32%, without any significant change in furosemide renal clearance. No information is available about the interaction of metformin and furosemide when co-administered chronically. Nifedipine A single-dose, metformin-nifedipine drug interaction study in normal healthy volunteers demonstrated that co-administration of nifedipine increased plasma metformin Cmax and AUC by 20% and 9%, respectively, and increased the amount excreted in the urine. Tmax and half-life were unaffected. Nifedipine appears to enhance the absorption of metformin. Metformin had minimal effects on nifedipine. Cationic drugs Cationic drugs (eg, amiloride, digoxin, morphine, procainamide, quinidine, quinine, ranitidine, triamterene, trimethoprim, or vancomycin) that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion theoretically have the potential for interaction with metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. Such interaction between metformin and oral cimetidine has been observed in normal healthy volunteers in both single- and multiple-dose, metformin-cimetidine drug interaction studies, with a 60% increase in peak metformin plasma and whole blood concentrations and a 40% increase in plasma and whole blood metformin AUC. There was no change in elimination half-life in the single-dose study. Metformin had no effect on cimetidine pharmacokinetics. Although such interactions remain theoretical (except for cimetidine), careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride and/or the interfering drug is recommended in patients who are taking cationic medications that are excreted via the proximal renal tubular secretory system. Other In healthy volunteers, the pharmacokinetics of metformin and propranolol and metformin and ibuprofen were not affected when co-administered in single-dose interaction studies."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride In double-blind clinical trials involving Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride as initial therapy or as second-line therapy, a total of 642 patients received the combination product Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride, 312 received metformin therapy, 324 received glyburide therapy, and 161 received placebo. The percent of patients reporting events and types of adverse events reported in clinical trials of Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride (all strengths) as initial therapy and second-line therapy are listed in Table 6. Table 6: Most Common Clinical Adverse Events (>5 %) in Double-Blind Clinical Studies of Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride Used as Initial or Second-Line Therapy Number (%) of Patients Glyburide and Metformin Adverse Event Placebo Glyburide Metformin Hydrochloride N=161 N=324 N=312 N=642 Upper respiratory infection 22 (13.7) 57 (17.6) 51 (16.3) 111 (17.3) Diarrhea 9 (5.6) 20 (6.2) 64 (20.5) 109 (17.0) Headache 17 (10.6) 37 (11.4) 29 (9.3) 57 (8.9) Nausea/vomiting 10 (6.2) 17 (5.2) 38 (12.2) 49 (7.6) Abdominal pain 6 (3.7) 10 (3.1) 25 (8.0) 44 (6.9) Dizziness 7 (4.3) 18 (5.6) 12 (3.8) 35 (5.5) In a controlled clinical trial of rosiglitazone versus placebo in patients treated with Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride (n=365), 181 patients received Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride with rosiglitazone and 184 received Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride with placebo. Edema was reported in 7.7% (14/181) of patients treated with rosiglitazone compared to 2.2% (4/184) of patients treated with placebo. A mean weight gain of 3 kg was observed in rosiglitazone-treated patients. Disulfiram-like reactions have very rarely been reported in patients treated with glyburide tablets. Hypoglycemia In controlled clinical trials of Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride there were no hypoglycemic episodes requiring medical intervention and/or pharmacologic therapy; all events were managed by the patients. The incidence of reported symptoms of hypoglycemia (such as dizziness, shakiness, sweating, and hunger), in the initial therapy trial of Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride are summarized in Table 7 . The frequency of hypoglycemic symptoms in patients treated with Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride 1.25 mg/250 mg was highest in patients with a baseline HbA1c <7%, lower in those with a baseline HbA1c of between 7% and 8%, and was comparable to placebo and metformin in those with a baseline HbA1c >8%. For patients with a baseline HbA1c between 8% and 11% treated with Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride 2.5 mg/500 mg as initial therapy, the frequency of hypoglycemic symptoms was 30% to 35%. As second-line therapy in patients inadequately controlled on sulfonylurea alone, approximately 6.8% of all patients treated with Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride experienced hypoglycemic symptoms. When rosiglitazone was added to Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride therapy, 22% of patients reported one or more fingerstick glucose measurements <=50 mg/dL compared to 3.3% of placebo-treated patients. All hypoglycemic events were managed by the patients and only one patient discontinued for hypoglycemia. (See PRECAUTIONS: General: Addition of Thiazolidinediones to Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride Therapy.) Gastrointestinal Reactions The incidence of gastrointestinal (GI) side effects (diarrhea, nausea/vomiting, and abdominal pain) in the initial therapy trial are summarized in Table 7 . Across all Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride trials, GI symptoms were the most common adverse events with Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride and were more frequent at higher dose levels. In controlled trials, <2% of patients discontinued Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride therapy due to GI adverse events. Table 7: Treatment Emergent Symptoms of Hypoglycemia or Gastrointestinal Adverse Events in a Placebo- and Active-Controlled Trial of Glyburide and Metformin Hydrochloride as Initial Therapy Glyburide and Glyburide and Metformin Metformin Hydrochloride Hydrochloride Placebo Glyburide Metformin 1.25 mg/250 mg 2.5 mg/500 mg Variable Tablets Tablets Tablets Tablets N=161 N=160 N=159 N=158 N=162 Mean Final Dose 0 mg 5.3 mg 1317 mg 2.78 mg/557 mg 4.1 mg/824 mg Number (%) of patients with symptoms of hypoglycemia 5 (3.1) 34 (21.3) 5 (3.1) 18 (11.4) 61 (37.7) Number (%) of patients with gastrointestinal adverse events 39 (24.2) 38 (23.8) 69 (43.3) 50 (31.6) 62 (38.3)"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
