https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Mivacurium+AND+Chloride+AND+Injection&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "MIVACURIUM CHLORIDE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Mivacron"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "Drug Interactions Although MIVACRON (a mixture of three stereoisomers) has been administered safely following succinylcholine-facilitated tracheal intubation, the interaction between MIVACRON and succinylcholine has not been systematically studied. Prior administration of succinylcholine can potentiate the neuromuscular blocking effects of nondepolarizing agents. Evidence of spontaneous recovery from succinylcholine should be observed before the administration of MIVACRON. The use of MIVACRON before succinylcholine to attenuate some of the side effects of succinylcholine has not been studied. There are no clinical data on the use of MIVACRON with other nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents. Isoflurane and enflurane (administered with nitrous oxide/oxygen to achieve 1.25 MAC) decrease the ED50 of MIVACRON by as much as 25% (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY - Pharmacodynamics and Individualization of Dosages ). These agents may also prolong the clinically effective duration of action and decrease the average infusion requirement of MIVACRON by as much as 35% to 40%. A greater potentiation of the neuromuscular blocking effects of MIVACRON may be expected with higher concentrations of enflurane or isoflurane. Halothane has little or no effect on the ED50, but may prolong the duration of action and decrease the average infusion requirement by as much as 20%. Other drugs which may enhance the neuromuscular blocking action of nondepolarizing agents such as MIVACRON include certain antibiotics (e.g., aminoglycosides, tetracyclines, bacitracin, polymyxins, lincomycin, clindamycin, colistin, and sodium colistimethate), magnesium salts, lithium, local anesthetics, procainamide, and quinidine. The neuromuscular blocking effect of MIVACRON may be enhanced by drugs that reduce plasma cholinesterase activity (e.g., chronically administered oral contraceptives, glucocorticoids, or certain monoamine oxidase inhibitors) or by drugs that irreversibly inhibit plasma cholinesterase (see PRECAUTIONS - Reduced Plasma Cholinesterase Activity subsection). Resistance to the neuromuscular blocking action of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents has been demonstrated in patients chronically administered phenytoin or carbamazepine. While the effects of chronic phenytoin or carbamazepine therapy on the action of MIVACRON are unknown, slightly shorter durations of neuromuscular block may be anticipated and infusion rate requirements may be higher."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS Observed in Clinical Trials MIVACRON (a mixture of three stereoisomers) was well tolerated during extensive clinical trials in inpatients and outpatients. Prolonged neuromuscular block, which is an important adverse experience associated with neuromuscular blocking agents as a class, was reported as an adverse experience in three of 2074 patients administered MIVACRON. The most commonly reported adverse experience following the administration of MIVACRON was transient, dose-dependent cutaneous flushing about the face, neck, and/or chest. Flushing was most frequently noted after the initial dose of MIVACRON and was reported in about 25% of adult patients who received 0.15 mg/kg MIVACRON over 5 to 15 seconds. When present, flushing typically began within 1 to 2 minutes after the dose of MIVACRON and lasted for 3 to 5 minutes. Of 105 patients who experienced flushing after 0.15 mg/kg MIVACRON, two patients also experienced mild hypotension that was not treated, and one patient experienced moderate wheezing that was successfully treated. Overall, hypotension was infrequently reported as an adverse experience in the clinical trials of MIVACRON. One of 332 (0.3%) healthy adults who received 0.15 mg/kg MIVACRON over 5 to 15 seconds and none of 37 cardiac surgery patients who received 0.15 mg/kg MIVACRON over 60 seconds were treated for a decrease in blood pressure in association with the administration of MIVACRON. One to two percent of healthy adults given greater than or equal to 0.2 mg/kg MIVACRON over 5 to 15 seconds, 2% to 3% of healthy adults given 0.2 mg/kg over 30 seconds, none of 100 healthy adults given 0.25 mg/kg as a divided dose (0.15 mg/kg followed in 30 seconds by 0.1 mg/kg), and 2% to 4% of cardiac surgery patients given greater than or equal to 0.2 mg/kg over 60 seconds were treated for a decrease in blood pressure. None of the 63 children who received the recommended dose of 0.2 mg/kg MIVACRON was treated for a decrease in blood pressure in association with the administration of MIVACRON. The following adverse experiences were reported in patients administered MIVACRON (all events judged by investigators during the clinical trials to have a possible causal relationship): Incidence Greater Than 1% Cardiovascular Flushing (16%) Incidence Less Than 1% Cardiovascular Hypotension, tachycardia, bradycardia, cardiac arrhythmia, phlebitis Respiratory Bronchospasm, wheezing, hypoxemia Dermatological Rash, urticaria, erythema, injection site reaction Nonspecific Prolonged drug effect Neurologic Dizziness Musculoskeletal Muscle spasms Observed in Clinical Practice Based on initial clinical practice experience in patients who received MIVACRON, spontaneously reported adverse events are uncommon. Some of these events occurred at recommended doses and required treatment. Anaphylaxis/Anaphylactoid Reactions: From post-marketing surveillance, MIVACRON has been associated with reports of anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions which in some cases have been life-threatening and fatal. Because these reactions were reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency (see WARNINGS and PRECAUTIONS ). In some of these reports, sensitivity to MIVACRON was confirmed using skin test procedures. Other adverse reaction data from clinical practice are insufficient to establish a causal relationship or to support an estimate of their incidence. These adverse events include: Musculoskeletal Diminished drug effect, prolonged drug effect Cardiovascular Hypotension (rarely severe), flushing Respiratory Bronchospasm Integumentary Rash"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
