https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Nivolumab+AND+Injection&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "NIVOLUMAB"
        "brand_name": [
          "OPDIVO"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with OPDIVO."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the labeling. •Immune-Mediated Pneumonitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Immune-Mediated Colitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] •Immune-Mediated Hepatitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] •Immune-Mediated Endocrinopathies [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Immune-Mediated Nephritis and Renal Dysfunction [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5) ] •Immune-Mediated Rash [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6) ] •Immune-Mediated Encephalitis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] •Other Immune-Mediated Adverse Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8) ] •Infusion Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] Most common adverse reactions (≥20%) in patients with melanoma were: •OPDIVO as a single agent: rash. (6.1) •OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab: rash, pruritus, headache, vomiting, and colitis. (6.1) Most common adverse reactions (≥20%) in patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer were fatigue, musculoskeletal pain, decreased appetite, cough, and constipation. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bristol-Myers Squibb at 1-800-721-5072 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch . 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data in the Warning and Precautions section reflect exposure to OPDIVO, as a single agent, for clinically significant adverse reactions in 978 patients enrolled in Trials 1, 3, a single-arm trial in NSCLC, or an additional dose finding study (n=306) administering OPDIVO as a single agent at doses of 0.1 to 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.8) ]. In addition, clinically significant adverse reactions with OPDIVO, in combination with ipilimumab, were evaluated in 188 patients with melanoma enrolled in Trial 4 (n=94) or an additional dose-finding study (n=94) administering OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab at doses of OPDIVO ranging from 0.3 to 3 mg/kg and doses of ipilimumab ranging from 1 to 3 mg/kg, supplemented by immune-mediated adverse reaction reports in ongoing clinical trials [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.8) ]. The data described below reflect exposure to OPDIVO as a single agent in Trial 1 and to OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab in Trial 4, which are randomized, active-controlled trials conducted in patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma, and in Trial 3, which is a randomized trial in patients with metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Unresectable or Metastatic Melanoma OPDIVO as a Single Agent The safety of OPDIVO as a single agent was evaluated in Trial 1, a randomized, open-label trial in which 370 patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma received OPDIVO 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks (n=268) or investigator’s choice of chemotherapy (n=102), either dacarbazine 1000 mg/m2 every 3 weeks or the combination of carboplatin AUC 6 every 3 weeks plus paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 every 3 weeks [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The median duration of exposure was 5.3 months (range: 1 day to 13.8+ months) with a median of eight doses (range: 1 to 31) in OPDIVO-treated patients and was 2 months (range: 1 day to 9.6+ months) in chemotherapy-treated patients. In this ongoing trial, 24% of patients received OPDIVO for greater than 6 months and 3% of patients received OPDIVO for greater than 1 year. In Trial 1, patients had documented disease progression following treatment with ipilimumab and, if BRAF V600 mutation positive, a BRAF inhibitor. The trial excluded patients with autoimmune disease, prior ipilimumab-related Grade 4 adverse reactions (except for endocrinopathies) or Grade 3 ipilimumab-related adverse reactions that had not resolved or were inadequately controlled within 12 weeks of the initiating event, patients with a condition requiring chronic systemic treatment with corticosteroids (>10 mg daily prednisone equivalent) or other immunosuppressive medications, a positive test for hepatitis B or C, and a history of HIV. The study population characteristics in the OPDIVO group and the chemotherapy group were similar: 66% male, median age 59.5 years, 98% white, baseline ECOG performance status 0 (59%) or 1 (41%), 74% with M1c stage disease, 73% with cutaneous melanoma, 11% with mucosal melanoma, 73% received two or more prior therapies for advanced or metastatic disease, and 18% had brain metastasis. There were more patients in the OPDIVO group with elevated LDH at baseline (51% vs. 38%). OPDIVO was discontinued for adverse reactions in 9% of patients. Twenty-six percent of patients receiving OPDIVO had a drug delay for an adverse reaction. Serious adverse reactions occurred in 41% of patients receiving OPDIVO. Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions occurred in 42% of patients receiving OPDIVO. The most frequent Grade 3 and 4 adverse reactions reported in 2% to less than 5% of patients receiving OPDIVO were abdominal pain, hyponatremia, increased aspartate aminotransferase, and increased lipase. Table 2 summarizes the adverse reactions that occurred in at least 10% of OPDIVO-treated patients in Trial 1. The most common adverse reaction (reported in at least 20% of patients) was rash. Table 2: Selected Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥10% of OPDIVO-Treated Patients and at a Higher Incidence than in the Chemotherapy Arm (Between Arm Difference of ≥5% [All Grades] or ≥2% [Grades 3-4]) (Trial 1) Adverse Reaction OPDIVO (n=268) Chemotherapy (n=102) All Grades Grades 3-4 All Grades Grades 3-4 Percentage (%) of Patients a Rash is a composite term which includes maculopapular rash, rash erythematous, rash pruritic, rash follicular, rash macular, rash papular, rash pustular, rash vesicular, and dermatitis acneiform. b Upper respiratory tract infection is a composite term which includes rhinitis, pharyngitis, and nasopharyngitis. Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rasha 21 0.4 7 0 Pruritus 19 0 3.9 0 Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Cough 17 0 6 0 Infections and Infestations Upper respiratory tract infectionb 11 0 2.0 0 General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions Peripheral edema 10 0 5 0 Other clinically important adverse reactions in less than 10% of patients treated with OPDIVO in Trial 1 were: Cardiac Disorders: ventricular arrhythmia Eye Disorders: iridocyclitis General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions: infusion-related reactions Investigations: increased amylase, increased lipase Nervous System Disorders: dizziness, peripheral and sensory neuropathy Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders: exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, vitiligo, psoriasis Table 3: Selected Laboratory Abnormalities Worsening from Baseline Occurring in ≥10% of OPDIVO-Treated Patients and at a Higher Incidence than in the Chemotherapy Arm (Between Arm Difference of ≥5% [All Grades] or ≥2% [Grades 3-4]) (Trial 1) a Each test incidence is based on the number of patients who had both baseline and at least one on-study laboratory measurement available: OPDIVO group (range: 252 to 256 patients) and chemotherapy group (range: 94 to 96 patients). Test Percentage of Patients with Worsening Laboratory Test from Baselinea OPDIVO Chemotherapy All Grades Grades 3-4 All Grades Grades 3-4 Increased AST 28 2.4 12 1.0 Increased alkaline phosphatase 22 2.4 13 1.1 Hyponatremia 25 5 18 1.1 Increased ALT 16 1.6 5 0 Hyperkalemia 15 2.0 6 0 OPDIVO in Combination with Ipilimumab The safety of OPDIVO, administered in combination with ipilimumab, was evaluated in Trial 4, a randomized, double-blind trial in which 140 previously untreated patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma received OPDIVO 1 mg/kg in combination with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg every 3 weeks for four cycles, followed by OPDIVO 3 mg/kg as a single agent every 2 weeks (n=94) or single-agent ipilimumab 3 mg/kg every 3 weeks for four cycles followed by placebo every 2 weeks (n=46) [see Clinical Studies (14.1)]. The median duration of exposure to OPDIVO was 2.2 months (range: 1 day to 10 months). Among patients who received OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab, 29% were exposed to OPDIVO for at least 6 months. Trial 4 enrolled patients who had not received systemic anticancer therapy for unresectable or metastatic melanoma and excluded patients with ocular melanoma, autoimmune disease, any condition requiring chronic systemic treatment with corticosteroids (more than 10 mg daily prednisone equivalent) or other immunosuppressive medications, a positive test for hepatitis B or C, or a history of HIV. The study population characteristics were: 67% male, median age 65 years, 98% white, baseline ECOG performance status 0 (82%) or 1 (17%), 46% with M1c stage disease; 25% with elevated LDH at baseline, 3% with a history of brain metastasis, and 23% had BRAF V600 mutation-positive melanoma. There were more patients in the OPDIVO plus ipilimumab group who had cutaneous melanoma (84% vs. 62%), while a greater proportion of patients in the ipilimumab group had acral/mucosal melanoma (8% vs. 21%). Serious adverse reactions (62% vs. 39%), adverse reactions leading to permanent discontinuation (43% vs. 11%) or dose delays (47% vs. 22%), and Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions (69% vs. 43%) all occurred more frequently in patients receiving OPDIVO plus ipilimumab compared with those receiving single-agent ipilimumab. In the OPDIVO plus ipilimumab group, 27% (25/94) of patients did not complete all four cycles of OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab. The first occurrence of a Grade 3 or 4 adverse reaction was during administration of OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab in 56 patients (59%) while 9 patients (10%) experienced first occurrence of a Grade 3 or 4 adverse reaction during administration of OPDIVO as a single agent. The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation of OPDIVO, as compared to single-agent ipilimumab, were colitis (16% vs. 2%), diarrhea not treated with corticosteroids (4% vs. 4%), increased ALT levels (4% vs. 0), pneumonitis (3% vs. 0), and AST increase (3% vs. 0). The most frequent serious adverse events with OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab, as compared to single-agent ipilimumab, were colitis (17% vs. 9%), diarrhea (9% vs. 7%), pyrexia (6% vs. 7%), and pneumonitis (5% vs. 0). The most common adverse reactions (reported in at least 20% of patients) in Trial 4 receiving OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab were rash, pruritus, headache, vomiting, and colitis. Table 4 summarizes the incidence of selected adverse reactions occurring in at least 10% of patients treated with OPDIVO, in combination with ipilimumab. Table 4: Selected Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥10% of Patients Receiving OPDIVO in Combination with Ipilimumab and at a Higher Incidence than in the Ipilimumab Arm (Between Arm Difference of ≥5% [All Grades] or ≥2% [Grades 3-4]) (Trial 4) a OPDIVO 1 mg/kg in combination with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg every 3 weeks for 4 doses, followed by OPDIVO 3 mg/kg as a single agent every 2 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. b Rash is a composite term which includes dermatitis, dermatitis acneiform, dermatitis bullous, erythema, rash erythematous, rash generalized, rash macular, rash maculopapular, rash papular, and rash pruritic. Adverse Reaction OPDIVO plus Ipilimumaba (n=94) Ipilimumab (n=46) All Grades Grade 3-4 All Grades Grade 3-4 Percentage (%) of Patients Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Rashb 67 9 57 2.2 Pruritus 37 1.1 26 0 Nervous System Disorders Headache 24 2.1 20 0 Gastrointestinal Disorders Vomiting 23 2.1 15 0 Colitis 22 16 11 7 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Dehydration 17 3.2 7 2.2 Endocrine Disorders Hypothyroidism 14 0 9 0 Hypophysitis 13 2.1 7 4.3 Eye Disorders Blurred vision 12 0 0 0 Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Pneumonitis 10 2.1 2.2 0 Other clinically important adverse reactions in less than 10% of patients treated with OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab were: Nervous System Disorders: peripheral neuropathy Gastrointestinal Disorders: stomatitis, colonic perforation Table 5: Selected Laboratory Abnormalities Worsening from Baseline Occurring in ≥10% of Patients Receiving OPDIVO in Combination with Ipilimumab and at a Higher Incidence than in the Ipilimumab Arm (Between Arm Difference of ≥5% [All Grades] or ≥2% [Grades 3-4]) (Trial 4) Test Percentage of Patients with Worsening Laboratory Test from Baselinea OPDIVO plus Ipilimumabb Ipilimumab All Grades Grades 3-4 All Grades Grades 3-4 a Each test incidence is based on the number of patients who had both baseline and at least one on-study laboratory measurement available: OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab group (range: 84 to 88 patients) and ipilimumab group (range: 45 to 46 patients). b OPDIVO 1 mg/kg in combination with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg every 3 weeks for 4 doses, followed by OPDIVO 3 mg/kg as a single agent every 2 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Chemistry Increased ALT 45 13 20 0 Increased AST 43 10 22 0 Hyponatremia 38 9 20 2.2 Increased lipase 36 13 17 7 Increased alkaline phosphatase 30 0 17 0 Hypocalcemia 29 2.3 15 2.2 Increased creatinine 24 1.1 13 0 Increased amylase 23 6 9 0 Hypomagnesemia 15 0 9 0 Hypokalemia 15 3.4 7 0 Hematology Anemia 40 1.1 35 2.2 Lymphopenia 37 9 30 2.2 Neutropenia 11 1.1 2.2 0 Metastatic Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer The safety of OPDIVO was evaluated in Trial 3, a randomized, open-label, multicenter trial in patients with metastatic non-squamous NSCLC and progression on or after one prior platinum doublet-based chemotherapy regimen [see Clinical Studies (14.2)]. Patients received 3 mg/kg of OPDIVO (n=287) administered intravenously over 60 minutes every 2 weeks or docetaxel (n=268) administered intravenously at 75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks. The median duration of therapy was 2.6 months (range: 0 to 24.0+ months) in OPDIVO-treated patients and was 2.3 months (range: 0 to 15.9 months) in docetaxel-treated patients. In this trial, 30% of patients received OPDIVO for greater than 6 months and 20% of patients received OPDIVO for greater than 1 year. Trial 3 excluded patients with active autoimmune disease, medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression, or with symptomatic interstitial lung disease. The median age of all randomized patients was 62 years (range: 21 to 85); 37% of patients in the OPDIVO group were ≥65 years of age and 47% of patients in the docetaxel group were ≥65 years of age, 55% were male, and 92% were white. Twelve percent of patients had brain metastases and ECOG performance status was 0 (31%) or 1 (69%). OPDIVO was discontinued in 13% of patients, and was delayed in 29% of patients for an adverse reaction. Serious adverse reactions occurred in 47% of patients receiving OPDIVO. The most frequent serious adverse reactions reported in at least 2% of patients receiving OPDIVO were pneumonia, pulmonary embolism, dyspnea, pleural effusion, and respiratory failure. In the OPDIVO arm, seven deaths were due to infection including one case of pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, four were due to pulmonary embolism, and one death was due to limbic encephalitis. The most common adverse reactions (reported in at least 20% of patients) were fatigue, musculoskeletal pain, cough, decreased appetite, and constipation. Table 6 summarizes selected adverse reactions occurring more frequently in at least 10% of OPDIVO-treated patients. Table 6: Selected Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥10% of OPDIVO-Treated Patients and at a Higher Incidence than Docetaxel (Between Arm Difference of ≥5% [All Grades] or ≥2% [Grades 3-4]) (Trial 3) Adverse Reaction OPDIVO (n=287) Docetaxel (n=268) All Grades Grades 3-4 All Grades Grades 3-4 Percentage (%) of Patients Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders Cough 30 0.3 25 0 Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders Decreased appetite 29 1.7 22 1.5 Gastrointestinal Disorders Constipation 23 0.7 17 0.7 Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders Pruritus 11 0 1.9 0 Other clinically important adverse reactions observed in patients treated with OPDIVO and which occurred at a similar incidence in docetaxel-treated patients and not listed elsewhere in section 6 include: fatigue/asthenia (49% Grade 1-4, 6% Grade 3-4), musculoskeletal pain (36%), pleural effusion (5.6%), pulmonary embolism (4.2%), urticaria (1.4%), and polymyalgia rheumatica (0.3%). Table 7: Selected Laboratory Abnormalities Worsening from Baseline Occurring in ≥10% of OPDIVO-Treated Patients for all NCI CTCAE Grades and at a Higher Incidence than Docetaxel (Between Arm Difference of ≥5% [All Grades] or ≥2% [Grades 3-4]) (Trial 3) a Each test incidence is based on the number of patients who had both baseline and at least one on-study laboratory measurement available: OPDIVO group (range: 280 to 287 patients) and docetaxel group (range: 252 to 262 patients); TSH: OPDIVO group n=209 and docetaxel group n=207. b Not graded per NCI CTCAE v4.0. Test Percentage of Patients with Worsening Laboratory Test from Baselinea OPDIVO Docetaxel All Grades Grades 3-4 All Grades Grades 3-4 Chemistry Hyponatremia 35 6 32 2.7 Increased AST 28 2.8 14 0.4 Increased alkaline phosphatase 27 1.1 18 0.4 Increased ALT 23 2.4 15 0.4 Increased creatinine 18 0 13 0.4 Increased TSHb 17 N/A 5 N/A 6.2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. Of 532 patients who were treated with OPDIVO 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks and evaluable for the presence of anti-nivolumab antibodies, 67 patients (12.6%) tested positive for treatment-emergent anti-nivolumab antibodies by an electrochemiluminescent (ECL) assay. Neutralizing antibodies against nivolumab were detected in five patients (0.9%). There was no evidence of altered pharmacokinetic profile or toxicity profile with anti-nivolumab binding antibody development. Of 105 patients who were treated with OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab and evaluable for the presence of anti-nivolumab antibodies, 23 patients (21.9%) tested positive for treatment-emergent anti-nivolumab antibodies by an ECL assay. Neutralizing antibodies against nivolumab were detected in one patient (1%). There was no evidence of altered toxicity profile with anti-nivolumab antibody development. The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. Additionally, the observed incidence of antibody (including neutralizing antibody) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications, and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of incidence of antibodies to OPDIVO with the incidences of antibodies to other products may be misleading."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Immune-mediated pneumonitis: Withhold for moderate and permanently discontinue for severe or life-threatening pneumonitis. (5.1) •Immune-mediated colitis: •OPDIVO as a single agent: Withhold for moderate or severe and permanently discontinue for life-threatening colitis. (5.2) •OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab: Withhold for moderate and permanently discontinue for severe or life-threatening colitis. (5.2) •Immune-mediated hepatitis: Monitor for changes in liver function. Withhold for moderate and permanently discontinue for severe or life-threatening transaminase or total bilirubin elevation. (5.3) •Immune-mediated endocrinopathies: Withhold for moderate or severe and permanently discontinue for life-threatening hypophysitis. Withhold for moderate and permanently discontinue for severe or life-threatening adrenal insufficiency. Monitor for changes in thyroid function. Initiate thyroid hormone replacement as needed. (5.4) •Immune-mediated nephritis and renal dysfunction: Monitor for changes in renal function. Withhold for moderate or severe and permanently discontinue for life-threatening serum creatinine elevation. (5.5) •Immune-mediated rash: Withhold for severe and permanently discontinue for life-threatening rash. (5.6) •Immune-mediated encephalitis: Monitor for changes in neurologic function. Withhold for new-onset moderate to severe neurological signs or symptoms and permanently discontinue for immune-mediated encephalitis. (5.7) •Embryofetal toxicity: Can cause fetal harm. Advise of potential risk to a fetus and use of effective contraception. (5.10, 8.1, 8.3) 5.1 Immune-Mediated Pneumonitis Immune-mediated pneumonitis or interstitial lung disease, defined as requiring use of corticosteroids and no clear alternate etiology, including fatal cases, occurred with OPDIVO treatment. Across clinical trial experience with solid tumors receiving OPDIVO as a single agent, fatal immune-mediated pneumonitis occurred in 0.5% (5/978) of patients. All five fatal cases occurred in a dose-finding study with OPDIVO doses of 1 mg/kg (two patients), 3 mg/kg (two patients), and 10 mg/kg (one patient). Across the clinical trial experience in 188 patients with melanoma who received OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab, in Trial 4 (n=94) and an additional dose-finding study (n=94), fatal immune-mediated pneumonitis occurred in 0.5% (1/188) of patients. In Trial 4, there were six additional patients who died without resolution of abnormal respiratory findings. Monitor patients for signs with radiographic imaging and symptoms of pneumonitis. Administer corticosteroids at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents for moderate (Grade 2) or greater pneumonitis, followed by corticosteroid taper. Permanently discontinue OPDIVO for severe (Grade 3) or life-threatening (Grade 4) pneumonitis and withhold OPDIVO until resolution for moderate (Grade 2) pneumonitis [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Melanoma In Trial 1, pneumonitis, including interstitial lung disease, occurred in 3.4% (9/268) of patients receiving OPDIVO and none of the 102 patients receiving chemotherapy. Immune-mediated pneumonitis occurred in 2.2% (6/268) of patients receiving OPDIVO: one with Grade 3 and five with Grade 2 pneumonitis. The median time to onset for the six cases was 2.2 months (range: 25 days to 3.5 months). In two patients, pneumonitis was diagnosed after discontinuation of OPDIVO for other reasons, and Grade 2 pneumonitis led to interruption or permanent discontinuation of OPDIVO in the remaining four patients. All six patients received high-dose corticosteroids (at least 40 mg prednisone equivalents per day); immune-mediated pneumonitis improved to Grade 0 or 1 with corticosteroids in all six patients. There were two patients with Grade 2 pneumonitis that completely resolved (defined as complete resolution of symptoms with completion of corticosteroids) and OPDIVO was restarted without recurrence of pneumonitis. In Trial 4, pneumonitis, including interstitial lung disease, occurred in 10% (9/94) of patients receiving OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab and 2.2% (1/46) of patients receiving ipilimumab. Immune-mediated pneumonitis occurred in 6% (6/94) of patients receiving OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab: Grade 5 (n=1), Grade 3 (n=2) and Grade 2 (n=3) pneumonitis. The median time to onset for the six cases was 2.5 months (range: 1.3 to 4.6 months). In the patient with fatal pneumonitis, the event was diagnosed after discontinuation of OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab for another immune-mediated adverse reaction; this patient died from pneumonitis more than 30 days after the last dose. The remaining five patients had dose interruption or permanent discontinuation of OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab. All six patients received high-dose corticosteroids. Immune-mediated pneumonitis completely resolved in the five patients with Grade 2 or 3 pneumonitis. OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab was restarted for one patient with Grade 2 pneumonitis after complete resolution, and pneumonitis did not recur. NSCLC In Trial 3, pneumonitis, including interstitial lung disease, occurred in 3.4% (10/287) of patients receiving OPDIVO. Of these 10 patients, there were five patients with Grade 3, two patients with Grade 2, and three patients with Grade 1 immune-mediated pneumonitis. The median time to onset was 7.2 months (range: 2.7 to 13.1 months). All five patients with Grade 3 and one of two patients with Grade 2 pneumonitis received high-dose corticosteroids and permanently discontinued OPDIVO; two of these seven were documented radiographically to have complete resolution of pneumonitis. One patient with Grade 2 pneumonitis had OPDIVO temporarily withheld, received low-dose corticosteroids, experienced complete resolution and was retreated without recurrence of pneumonitis. 5.2 Immune-Mediated Colitis Immune-mediated colitis, defined as requiring use of corticosteroids with no clear alternate etiology, can occur with OPDIVO treatment. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of colitis. Administer corticosteroids at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents followed by corticosteroid taper for severe (Grade 3) or life-threatening (Grade 4) colitis. Administer corticosteroids at a dose of 0.5 to 1 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents followed by corticosteroid taper for moderate (Grade 2) colitis of more than 5 days duration; if worsening or no improvement occurs despite initiation of corticosteroids, increase dose to 1 to 2 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents. When administered as a single agent, withhold OPDIVO for moderate or severe (Grade 2 or 3) colitis. Permanently discontinue OPDIVO for life-threatening (Grade 4) or for recurrent colitis upon restarting OPDIVO [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. When administered in combination with ipilimumab, withhold OPDIVO for moderate colitis (Grade 2). Permanently discontinue OPDIVO for severe or life-threatening (Grade 3 or 4) colitis or for recurrent colitis upon restarting OPDIVO [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. Melanoma In Trial 1, diarrhea or colitis occurred in 21% (57/268) of patients receiving OPDIVO and 18% (18/102) of patients receiving chemotherapy. Immune-mediated colitis occurred in 2.2% (6/268) of patients receiving OPDIVO: five patients with Grade 3 and one patient with Grade 2 colitis. The median time to onset of immune-mediated colitis from initiation of OPDIVO was 2.5 months (range: 1 to 6 months). In three patients, colitis was diagnosed after discontinuation of OPDIVO for other reasons, and Grade 2 or 3 colitis led to interruption or permanent discontinuation of OPDIVO in the remaining three patients. Five of these six patients received high-dose corticosteroids (at least 40 mg prednisone equivalents) for a median duration of 1.4 months (range: 3 days to 2.4 months) preceding corticosteroid taper. The sixth patient continued on low-dose corticosteroids started for another immune-mediated adverse reaction. Immune-mediated colitis improved to Grade 0 with corticosteroids in five patients, including one patient with Grade 3 colitis retreated after complete resolution (defined as improved to Grade 0 with completion of corticosteroids) without additional events of colitis. Grade 2 colitis was ongoing in one patient. In Trial 4, diarrhea or colitis occurred in 57% (54/94) of patients receiving OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab and 46% (21/46) of patients receiving ipilimumab. Immune-mediated colitis occurred in 33% (31/94) of patients receiving OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab: one patient with Grade 4, 16 patients with Grade 3, nine patients with Grade 2, and five patients with Grade 1 colitis. The median time to onset was 1.4 months (range: 6.1 days to 5.3 months). Immune-mediated colitis led to permanent discontinuation of OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab in 17 patients. Thirty of the 31 patients received high-dose corticosteroids for a median duration of 1.2 months (range: 1 day to 6 months) and 11 received infliximab. Immune-mediated colitis resolved following treatment with immunosuppressive medications in 30 patients. Four patients with Grade 2 immune-mediated colitis experienced complete resolution after restarting OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab. In Trial 4, there were three patients who died without resolution of immune-mediated colitis. NSCLC In Trial 3, diarrhea or colitis occurred in 17% (50/287) of patients receiving OPDIVO. Immune-mediated colitis occurred in 2.4% (7/287) of patients: three patients with Grade 3, two patients with Grade 2, and two patients with Grade 1. The median time to onset in these seven patients was 2.7 months (range: 4 weeks to 19 months). All seven patients received corticosteroids, six of these seven received high-dose corticosteroids for a median duration of 2.9 weeks (range: 1 week to 2.1 months). One patient with Grade 3 colitis permanently discontinued OPDIVO. All seven patients experienced complete resolution. Five of the seven patients were retreated after complete resolution without recurrence of diarrhea or colitis. 5.3 Immune-Mediated Hepatitis Immune-mediated hepatitis, defined as requiring use of corticosteroids and no clear alternate etiology, can occur with OPDIVO treatment. Monitor patients for abnormal liver tests prior to and periodically during treatment. Administer corticosteroids at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents for moderate (Grade 2) or greater transaminase elevations, with or without concomitant elevation in total bilirubin. Withhold OPDIVO for moderate (Grade 2) and permanently discontinue OPDIVO for severe (Grade 3) or life-threatening (Grade 4) immune-mediated hepatitis [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Melanoma In Trial 1, there was an increased incidence of liver test abnormalities in the OPDIVO-treated group as compared to the chemotherapy-treated group, with increases in AST (28% vs. 12%), alkaline phosphatase (22% vs. 13%), ALT (16% vs. 5%), and total bilirubin (9% vs. 0). Immune-mediated hepatitis occurred in 1.1% (3/268) of patients receiving OPDIVO: two patients with Grade 3 and one patient with Grade 2 hepatitis. The time to onset was 97, 113, and 86 days after initiation of OPDIVO. In one patient, hepatitis was diagnosed after discontinuation of OPDIVO for other reasons. In two patients, OPDIVO was withheld. All three patients received high-dose corticosteroids (at least 40 mg prednisone equivalents). Liver tests improved to Grade 1 within 4 to 15 days of initiation of corticosteroids. Immune-mediated hepatitis resolved and did not recur with continuation of corticosteroids in two patients; the third patient died of disease progression with persistent hepatitis. The two patients with Grade 3 hepatitis that resolved restarted OPDIVO and, in one patient, Grade 3 immune-mediated hepatitis recurred resulting in permanent discontinuation of OPDIVO. In Trial 4, immune-mediated hepatitis occurred in 15% (14/94) of patients receiving OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab: three patients with Grade 4, nine patients with Grade 3, and two patients with Grade 2 hepatitis. The median time to onset was 2.8 months (range: 3 weeks to 5.7 months). Five patients discontinued OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab due to hepatitis. Thirteen of the 14 patients received high-dose corticosteroids and three received mycophenolic acid. Complete resolution (defined as improved to Grade 0 with completion of corticosteroids) occurred in nine patients. Among four patients for whom OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab was restarted, three had recurrence or worsening of hepatitis and one improved on corticosteroids. NSCLC In Trial 3, one patient developed immune-mediated hepatitis (0.3%) after 7.8 months of OPDIVO exposure. The event resolved following temporary withholding of OPDIVO and high-dose corticosteroid therapy. Immune-mediated hepatitis recurred following resumption of OPDIVO, resulting in permanent discontinuation. 5.4 Immune-Mediated Endocrinopathies Hypophysitis Hypophysitis can occur with OPDIVO treatment. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hypophysitis. Administer corticosteroids at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents for moderate (Grade 2) or greater hypophysitis. Withhold OPDIVO for moderate (Grade 2) or severe (Grade 3) and permanently discontinue OPDIVO for life-threatening (Grade 4) hypophysitis [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. In Trial 4, hypophysitis occurred in 13% (12/94) of patients receiving OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab: two patients with Grade 3 and 10 patients with Grade 2 hypophysitis. The median time to onset was 2.9 months (range: 1.4 to 5.5 months). Ten patients received corticosteroids, including both patients with Grade 3 hypophysitis. OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab was restarted for eight patients without resulting in worsening of hypophysitis. Four patients were continuing with corticosteroids. Adrenal Insufficiency Adrenal insufficiency can occur with OPDIVO treatment. Monitor patients for signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency during and after treatment. Administer corticosteroids at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents for severe (Grade 3) or life-threatening (Grade 4) adrenal insufficiency. Withhold OPDIVO for moderate (Grade 2) and permanently discontinue OPDIVO for severe (Grade 3) or life-threatening (Grade 4) adrenal insufficiency [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. In Trial 4, adrenal insufficiency occurred in 9% (8/94) of patients receiving OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab: three patients with Grade 3, four patients with Grade 2, and one patient with Grade 1 adrenal insufficiency. The median time to onset was 3 months (range: 1.2 to 5.6 months). Grade 3 adrenal insufficiency led to discontinuation of OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab in one patient. The remaining events each occurred after treatment discontinuation, except in two cases where OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab was restarted and did not lead to recurrence. Three patients received high-dose corticosteroids. Six patients experienced resolution of adrenal insufficiency, three of whom remained on corticosteroids. In Trials 1 and 3 (n=555), 1% of OPDIVO-treated patients developed adrenal insufficiency. Hypothyroidism and Hyperthyroidism Thyroid disorders can occur with OPDIVO treatment. Monitor thyroid function prior to and periodically during treatment. Administer hormone-replacement therapy for hypothyroidism. Initiate medical management for control of hyperthyroidism. There are no recommended dose adjustments of OPDIVO for hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism. Melanoma In Trial 1, where patients were evaluated at baseline and during the trial for thyroid function, Grade 1 or 2 hypothyroidism occurred in 8% (21/268) of patients receiving OPDIVO and none of the 102 patients receiving chemotherapy. The median time to onset was 2.5 months (range: 24 days to 11.7 months). Seventeen of the 21 patients with hypothyroidism received levothyroxine. Fifteen of 17 patients received subsequent OPDIVO dosing while continuing to receive levothyroxine. In Trial 1, Grade 1 or 2 hyperthyroidism occurred in 3% (8/268) of patients receiving OPDIVO and 1% (1/102) of patients receiving chemotherapy. The median time to onset in OPDIVO-treated patients was 1.6 months (range: 0 to 3.3 months). Four of five patients with Grade 1 hyperthyroidism and two of three patients with Grade 2 hyperthyroidism had documented resolution of hyperthyroidism; all three patients received medical management for Grade 2 hyperthyroidism. In Trial 4, where patients were evaluated at baseline and during the trial for thyroid function, hypothyroidism occurred in 19% (18/94) of patients receiving OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab. All were Grade 1 or 2 in severity except for one patient who experienced Grade 3 autoimmune thyroiditis. The median time to onset was 2.1 months (range: 1 day to 4.7 months). Two patients received high-dose corticosteroids. Sixteen of the 18 patients received replacement therapy with levothyroxine. Complete resolution of hypothyroidism occurred in one patient allowing discontinuation of levothyroxine. Thirteen of 16 patients received subsequent OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab while continuing to receive levothyroxine. In Trial 4, Grade 1 hyperthyroidism occurred in 2.1% (2/94) of patients receiving OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab. The time to onset for both cases was 3 weeks. Both patients had a resolution of hyperthyroidism without requiring medical management and both subsequently developed hypothyroidism. NSCLC In Trial 3, Grade 1 or Grade 2 hypothyroidism, including thyroiditis, occurred in 7% (20/287) of patients receiving OPDIVO and 0% (0/268) of patients receiving docetaxel, while elevated TSH occurred in 17% of patients receiving OPDIVO and 5% of patients receiving docetaxel. The median time to onset of hypothyroidism/thyroiditis was 2.9 months (range: 1.4 to 11.8 months). All 20 patients received levothyroxine. Two patients received corticosteroids; one of whom received high-dose corticosteroids. Complete resolution of hypothyroidism occurred in one patient. OPDIVO was temporarily withheld due to hypothyroidism/thyroiditis in three patients; no patients discontinued OPDIVO due to hypothyroidism/thyroiditis. Grade 1 or Grade 2 hyperthyroidism occurred in 1.4% (4/287) of patients. The median time to onset was 2 months (range: 4.1 weeks to 2.8 months). Two of four patients received methimazole and one patient also received treatment with high-dose corticosteroids. All four patients experienced complete resolution. 5.5 Immune-Mediated Nephritis and Renal Dysfunction Immune-mediated nephritis, defined as renal dysfunction or ≥ Grade 2 increased creatinine, requirement for corticosteroids, and no clear alternate etiology, can occur with OPDIVO treatment. Monitor patients for elevated serum creatinine prior to and periodically during treatment. Withhold OPDIVO for moderate (Grade 2) or severe (Grade 3) increased serum creatinine, and administer corticosteroids at a dose of 0.5 to 1 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents followed by corticosteroid taper. If worsening or no improvement occurs, increase dose of corticosteroids to 1 to 2 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents and permanently discontinue OPDIVO. Permanently discontinue OPDIVO and administer corticosteroids at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents followed by corticosteroid taper for life-threatening (Grade 4) increased serum creatinine [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) and Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Melanoma In Trial 1, there was an increased incidence of elevated creatinine in the OPDIVO-treated group as compared to the chemotherapy-treated group (13% vs. 9%). Grade 2 or 3 immune-mediated nephritis or renal dysfunction occurred in 0.7% (2/268) of patients at 3.5 and 6 months after OPDIVO initiation, respectively. OPDIVO was permanently discontinued in both patients; both received high-dose corticosteroids (at least 40 mg prednisone equivalents). Immune-mediated nephritis resolved and did not recur with continuation of corticosteroids in one patient. Renal dysfunction was ongoing in one patient. In Trial 4, Grade 2 or higher immune-mediated nephritis or renal dysfunction occurred in 2.1% (2/94) of patients. Time to onset was 1.3 weeks and 6.7 months, respectively. In one of these patients, immune-mediated renal dysfunction resolved with corticosteroids and withholding of OPDIVO, whereas the second patient died with persistent renal dysfunction. NSCLC In Trial 3, immune-mediated renal dysfunction (Grade 2) occurred in 0.3% (1/287) of patients. The time to onset in this patient was 1.5 months. The patient permanently discontinued OPDIVO, received high-dose corticosteroids, and experienced complete resolution. 5.6 Immune-Mediated Rash Immune-mediated rash can occur with OPDIVO treatment. Monitor patients for rash. Administer corticosteroids at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents for severe (Grade 3) or life-threatening (Grade 4) rash. Withhold OPDIVO for severe (Grade 3) rash and permanently discontinue OPDIVO for life-threatening (Grade 4) rash [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. In Trial 4, immune-mediated rash occurred in 37% (35/94) of patients receiving OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab: six patients with Grade 3, 10 patients with Grade 2, and 19 patients with Grade 1 rash. The median time to onset was 2.4 weeks (range: 1 day to 6.5 months). Among the six patients with Grade 3 rash, four received systemic corticosteroids, four had OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab withheld then restarted without resulting in recurrence of high-grade rash, and all had resolution to Grade 0 or 1 with no further requirement for systemic corticosteroids. Among the 29 patients with Grade 1 or 2 rash, six received systemic corticosteroids and two had OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab withheld. None of the 35 patients discontinued treatment due to immune-mediated rash. In Trial 1 (n=268), the incidence of rash was 21%; the incidence of Grade 3 or 4 rash was 0.4%. In Trial 3, immune-mediated rash occurred in 6% (17/287) of patients receiving OPDIVO. Grade 3 rash developed in four patients (1.4%), of whom one discontinued treatment. 5.7 Immune-Mediated Encephalitis Immune-mediated encephalitis can occur with OPDIVO treatment. Withhold OPDIVO in patients with new-onset moderate to severe neurologic signs or symptoms and evaluate to rule out infectious or other causes of moderate to serve neurologic deterioration. Evaluation may include, but not be limited to, consultation with a neurologist, brain MRI, and lumbar puncture. If other etiologies are ruled out, administer corticosteroids at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day prednisone equivalents for patients with immune-mediated encephalitis, followed by corticosteroid taper. Permanently discontinue OPDIVO for immune-mediated encephalitis [see Dosage and Administration (2.3) ]. Across clinical studies of 8490 patients receiving OPDIVO as a single agent or in combination with ipilimumab, less than 1% of patients were identified as having encephalitis. In Trial 3, fatal limbic encephalitis occurred in one patient (0.3%) receiving OPDIVO after 7.2 months of exposure. OPDIVO was discontinued; corticosteroids were administered. 5.8 Other Immune-Mediated Adverse Reactions Other clinically significant immune-mediated adverse reactions can occur. Immune-mediated adverse reactions may occur after discontinuation of OPDIVO therapy. For any suspected immune-mediated adverse reactions, exclude other causes. Based on the severity of the adverse reaction, permanently discontinue or withhold OPDIVO, administer high-dose corticosteroids, and if appropriate, initiate hormone-replacement therapy. Upon improvement to Grade 1 or less, initiate corticosteroid taper and continue to taper over at least 1 month. Consider restarting OPDIVO after completion of corticosteroid taper based on the severity of the event [see Dosage and Administration (2.3)]. The following clinically significant, immune-mediated adverse reactions occurred in less than 2% of OPDIVO-treated patients in Trials 1 and 3 (n=555): uveitis, pancreatitis, abducens nerve paresis, demyelination, polymyalgia rheumatica, and autoimmune neuropathy. In Trial 4, the following additional immune-mediated adverse reactions occurred in 1% of patients treated with OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab: Guillain-Barré syndrome and hypopituitarism. Across clinical trials of OPDIVO as a single agent administered at doses of 3 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg the following additional clinically significant, immune-mediated adverse reactions were identified: facial nerve paralysis, motor dysfunction, vasculitis, diabetic ketoacidosis, and myasthenic syndrome. Across clinical trials of OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab, the following additional clinically significant, immune-mediated adverse reactions were identified: uveitis, sarcoidosis, duodenitis, pancreatitis, and gastritis. 5.9 Infusion Reactions Severe infusion reactions have been reported in <1% of patients in clinical trials of OPDIVO as a single agent. In Trial 3, Grade 2 infusion reactions occurred in 1% (3/287) of patients receiving OPDIVO. In Trial 4, Grade 2 infusion reactions occurred in 3% (3/94) of patients receiving OPDIVO in combination with ipilimumab. Discontinue OPDIVO in patients with severe or life-threatening infusion reactions. Interrupt or slow the rate of infusion in patients with mild or moderate infusion reactions. 5.10 Embryofetal Toxicity Based on its mechanism of action and data from animal studies, OPDIVO can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. In animal reproduction studies, administration of nivolumab to cynomolgus monkeys from the onset of organogenesis through delivery resulted in increased abortion and premature infant death. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with OPDIVO-containing regimen and for at least 5 months after the last dose of OPDIVO [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.3)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
