https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Palifermin&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "PALIFERMIN"
        "brand_name": [
          "Kepivance"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS In vitro and in vivo data showed that palifermin interacts with unfractionated as well as low molecular weight heparins. Heparin co-administration resulted in a 5-fold increase in palifermin systemic exposure. Avoid co-administration of palifermin with heparin. If heparin is used to maintain an intravenous line, rinse the line with saline prior to and after Kepivance administration [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Do not administer Kepivance within 24 hours before, during infusion of, or within 24 hours after administration of myelotoxic chemotherapy [see Dosage and Administration (2.1) and Clinical Studies (14)]. In a clinical trial, administration of Kepivance within 24 hours of chemotherapy resulted in increased severity and duration of oral mucositis. Heparin may increase systemic exposure (7) Myelotoxic chemotherapy (7, 14)"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions attributed to Kepivance were skin toxicities (rash, erythema, edema, pruritus), oral toxicities (dysesthesia, tongue discoloration, tongue thickening, alteration of taste), pain, arthralgias, and dysesthesia. The median time to onset of cutaneous toxicity was 6 days following the first of 3 consecutive daily doses of Kepivance, with a median duration of 5 days. In patients receiving Kepivance, dysesthesia (including hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, and paresthesia) was usually localized to the perioral region, whereas in patients receiving placebo dysesthesias were more likely to occur in extremities. Most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥20% and 5%≥placebo) are rash, fever, elevated serum amylase (Grade 3/4), pruritus, erythema, and edema (6) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Swedish Orphan Biovitrum at 1-866-773-5274 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. The data described in Table 1 and the discussion below reflect exposure to Kepivance in 409 patients with hematologic malignancies who were enrolled in 3 randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials and a pharmacokinetic study. Patients received Kepivance either before, or before and after, regimens of myelotoxic chemotherapy, with or without total body irradiation (TBI), followed by hematopoietic stem cell support. Kepivance was administered in daily doses ranging from 5 to 80 mcg/kg/day. The total dose of Kepivance ranged from 15 to 480 mcg/kg with a median of 360 mcg/kg. The population had a median age of 48 years (range: 41 to 60 years), 62% were male and 83% were White with 7.4 % Black and 6.2 % Hispanic. Non Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) was the most common malignancy followed by Hodgkin's disease, multiple myeloma, and leukemia. The most common serious adverse reaction attributed to Kepivance was skin rash, reported in less than 1% (3/409) of patients treated. Grade 3 skin rashes occurred in 3% of patients (9/409) receiving Kepivance and 2% (5/241) receiving placebo. Table 1. Incidence of Adverse Reactions Occurring with a Between-Group Difference of ≥ 5% BODY SYSTEM Adverse Event Kepivance (n = 409) % Placebo (n = 241) % BODY AS A WHOLE Edema 28 21 Pain 16 11 Fever 39 34 GASTROINTESTINAL Mouth/Tongue Thickness or Discoloration 17 8 MUSCULOSKELETAL Arthralgia 10 5 SKIN AND APPENDAGES Rash 62 50 Pruritus 35 24 Erythema 32 22 SPECIAL SENSES Taste Altered 16 8 CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM / PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Dysesthesia – Hyperesthesia / hypoesthesia/ paresthesia 12 7 METABOLIC Elevated serum lipase All grades 28 23 Grade 3 and 4 11 5 Elevated serum amylase All grades 62 54 Grade 3 and 4 38 31 Cataracts: In a postmarketing safety study, the incidence of cataracts was numerically higher among patients receiving Kepivance than in the control population. (See 14 CLINICAL STUDIES). Laboratory Test Findings: Reversible elevations in serum lipase and amylase, which did not require treatment, were reported in 28% and 62% of patients receiving Kepivance and 23% and 54%of patients receiving placebo. In general, peak increases were observed during the period of cytotoxic therapy and returned to baseline by the day of hematopoietic stem cell infusion. Amylase was mainly salivary in origin. 6.2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. The clinical significance of antibodies to Kepivance is unknown but may include decreased activity and/or cross reactivity with other members of the FGF family of growth factors. In clinical trials, serum samples from patients treated with Kepivance were tested for antibodies to Kepivance using an electrochemiluminescence-based binding assay. Twelve of 645 patients (2%) tested positive; none had evidence of neutralizing activity in a cell-based assay. The incidence of antibody positivity is highly dependent on the specific assay and its sensitivity. Additionally, the observed incidence of antibody positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of the incidence of antibodies to Kepivance with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of Kepivance in the stem cell transplant setting. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Vaginal edema and erythema; Palmar-plantar Erythrodysaesthesia Syndrome (also known as “hand-foot syndrome”)"
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Potential for stimulation of tumor growth — Kepivance is not indicated for non-hematologic tumors. The effects of Kepivance on stimulation of keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) receptor-expressing, non-hematopoietic tumors in patients are not known (1, 5.1) 5.1 Potential for Stimulation of Tumor Growth The safety and efficacy of Kepivance have not been established in patients with non-hematologic malignancies. The effects of Kepivance on stimulation of KGF receptor-expressing, non-hematopoietic tumors in patients are not known. Kepivance has been shown to enhance the growth of human epithelial tumor cell lines in vitro and to increase the rate of tumor cell line growth in a human carcinoma xenograft model [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.1)]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
