https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Perflutren+AND+Lipid+AND+Microsphere&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "PERFLUTREN"
        "brand_name": [
          "Definity"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug-drug interactions for activated DEFINITY® have not been studied. Specific drug-drug interactions have not been studied."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The most common adverse reactions (≥0.5%) are headache, back/renal pain, flushing, nausea, chest pain, injection site reactions, and dizziness (6). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Lantheus Medical Imaging, Inc. at 1-800-362-2668 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience A total of 1716 subjects were evaluated in pre-market clinical trials of activated DEFINITY®. In this group, 1063 (61.9%) were male and 653 (38.1%) were female, 1328 (77.4%) were White, 258 (15.0%) were Black, 74 (4.3%) were Hispanic, and 56 (3.3%) were classified as other racial or ethnic groups. The mean age was 56.1 years (range 18 to 93). Of these, 144 (8.4%) had at least one adverse reaction (Table 6.1). There were 26 serious adverse events and 15 (0.9%) subjects discontinued because of an adverse event. Deaths and Serious Adverse Events Among the 1716 activated DEFINITY® patients, 19 (1.1%) suffered serious cardiopulmonary adverse events including eight deaths. The deaths occurred several days after activated DEFINITY® administration and appeared to be related to the course of underlying disease. Of the 11 other serious adverse events, which appeared within days of the drug administration (2-15 days), all appeared to be a progression underlying cardiac and non-cardiac disease. However, a role for DEFINITY ® in the initiation or course of these adverse events cannot be ruled out. Discontinuations There were 15 discontinuations reported with a mean age of 41.5 years. Nine of these patients were discontinued after the first injection. One patient experienced a hypersensitivity reaction with urticaria and pruritus and all the other patients experienced dizziness, chest pain, dyspnea or back pain. These adverse reactions appeared within minutes (1 – 15 min) of the drug administration and were of moderate intensity resolving usually without treatment within minutes or hours after onset. For all adverse reactions, the overall incidence of adverse experiences was similar for the <65 year age group and the > 65 year age group, similar in males and in females, similar among all racial or ethnic groups, and similar for bolus and infusion dosing. Table 6.1 summarizes the most common adverse reactions. Table 6.1. New-Onset Adverse Reactions Occurring in ≥0.5% of All Activated DEFINITY®-Treated Subjects All activated DEFINITY® (N=1716) N=Sample size 1716 subjects who received activated DEFINITY® n=Number of subjects reporting at least one Adverse Reaction Total Number of Adverse Reactions 269 Total Number of Subjects with an Adverse Reaction 144 (8.4%) Body system Preferred term n (%) Application Site Disorders 11 (0.6) Injection Site Reactions 11 (0.6) Body as a Whole 41 (2.4) Back/renal pain 20 (1.2) Chest pain 13 (0.8) Central and peripheral nervous system disorder 54 (3.1) Headache 40 (2.3) Dizziness 11 (0.6) Gastrointestinal system 31 (1.8) Nausea 17 (1.0) Vascular (extracardiac) disorders 19 (1.1) Flushing 19 (1.1) Other adverse reactions that occurred in ≤0.5% of the activated DEFINITY®-dosed subjects were: Body as a Whole: Fatigue, fever, hot flushes, pain, rigors, and syncope Cardiovascular: Abnormal ECGs, bradycardia, tachycardia, palpitation, hypertension and hypotension Digestive: Dyspepsia, dry mouth, tongue disorder, toothache, abdominal pain, diarrhea and vomiting Hematology: Granulocytosis, leukocytosis, leukopenia, and eosinophilia Musculoskeletal: Arthralgia Nervous System: Leg cramps, hypertonia, vertigo and paresthesia Platelet, Bleeding, and Clotting: Hematoma Respiratory: Coughing, hypoxia, pharyngitis, rhinitis and dyspnea Special Senses: Decreased hearing, conjunctivitis, abnormal vision and taste perversion Skin: Pruritus, rash, erythematous rash, urticaria, increased sweating, and dry skin Urinary: Albuminuria 6.2 Postmarketing Experience In a prospective, multicenter, open-label registry of 1053 patients receiving DEFINITY® in routine clinical practice, heart rate, respiratory rate, and pulse oximetry were monitored for 30 minutes after DEFINITY® administration. No deaths or serious adverse reactions were reported, suggesting that these reactions are unlikely to occur at a rate of more than 0.3% when DEFINITY® is used according to recommendations. The following adverse reactions have been identified during the post-marketing use of perflutren-containing microsphere products. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Fatal cardiopulmonary and anaphylactoid events and other serious but non-fatal adverse reactions were uncommonly reported. These events typically occurred within 30 minutes of DEFINITY® administration. These serious events may be increased among patients with unstable cardiopulmonary conditions (acute myocardial infarction, acute coronary artery syndromes, worsening or unstable congestive heart failure, or serious ventricular arrhythmias [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS (5.1, 5.2)]. Reported reactions included: Cardiopulmonary Fatal cardiac or respiratory arrest, shock, syncope, symptomatic arrhythmias (atrial fibrillation, tachycardia, bradycardia, supraventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia), hypertension, hypotension, dyspnea, hypoxia, chest pain, respiratory distress, stridor, wheezing. Anaphylactoid Anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylactic shock, hypersensitivity, bronchospasm, throat tightness, angioedema, edema (pharyngeal, palatal, mouth, peripheral, localized), swelling (face, eye, lip, tongue, upper airway), facial hypoesthesia, rash, urticaria, pruritus, flushing, erythema. Neurologic Coma, loss of consciousness, convulsion, seizure, transient ischemic attack, agitation, tremor, vision blurred, dizziness, headache, fatigue."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Serious cardiopulmonary reactions, including fatalities, have occurred during or following perflutren-containing microsphere administration. Serious acute anaphylactoid reactions have occurred in patients with no prior exposure to perflutren-containing microsphere products (5, 6). Assess all patients for the presence of any condition that precludes DEFINITY ® administration (4). Always have cardiopulmonary resuscitation personnel and equipment readily available prior to DEFINITY ® administration and monitor all patients for acute reactions (5.1, 5.2). 5.1 Serious Cardiopulmonary Reactions: Serious cardiopulmonary reactions including fatalities have occurred uncommonly during or shortly following perflutren-containing microsphere administration, typically within 30 minutes of administration. The risk for these reactions may be increased among patients with unstable cardiopulmonary conditions (acute myocardial infarction, acute coronary artery syndromes, worsening or unstable congestive heart failure, or serious ventricular arrhythmias). Always have cardiopulmonary resuscitation personnel and equipment readily available prior to DEFINITY ® administration and monitor all patients for acute reactions. The reported reactions include: fatal cardiac or respiratory arrest, shock, syncope, symptomatic arrhythmias (atrial fibrillation, tachycardia, bradycardia, supraventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia), hypertension, hypotension, dyspnea, hypoxia, chest pain, respiratory distress, stridor, wheezing, loss of consciousness, and convulsions [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6)]. 5.2 Anaphylactoid Reactions: In postmarketing use, uncommon but serious anaphylactoid reactions were observed during or shortly following perflutren-containing microsphere administration including: Shock, hypersensitivity, bronchospasm, throat tightness, angioedema, edema (pharyngeal, palatal, mouth, peripheral, localized), swelling (face, eye, lip, tongue, upper airway), facial hypoesthesia, rash, urticaria, pruritus, flushing, and erythema have occurred in patients with no prior exposure to perflutren-containing microsphere products [see ADVERSE REACTIONS (6)]. 5.3 Systemic Embolization of DEFINITY® in Patients with Cardiac Shunts: In patients with right-to-left, bi-directional, or transient right-to-left cardiac shunts phospholipid-encapsulated microspheres can bypass the pulmonary particle-filtering mechanisms and directly enter the arterial circulation resulting in microvascular occlusion and ischemia. In an animal study utilizing intra-arterial administration of activated DEFINITY ® , microsphere trapping was seen in small arterioles <15 µm, especially at branch points and in capillaries at all doses tested, including doses directly applicable to those used in humans. An animal study utilizing intravenous administration did not result in arterial microvascular obstruction presumably because of filtering by the lungs. Do not administer DEFINITY ® by intra-arterial injection [see CONTRAINDICATIONS (4)]. 5.4 High Ultrasound Mechanical Index: High ultrasound mechanical index values may cause microsphere cavitation or rupture and lead to ventricular arrhythmias. Additionally, end-systolic triggering with high mechanical indices has been reported to cause ventricular arrhythmias. The safety of activated DEFINITY ® at mechanical indices greater than 0.8 has not been evaluated [see DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION (2)]. The safety of activated DEFINITY ® with the use of end-systolic triggering has not been evaluated. 5.5 QTc Prolongation: ECG parameters for doses up to 10 microL/kg were monitored in 221 subjects at multiple time points from 1 hour to 72 hours after the first bolus injection. In the 221 subjects, QTc prolongations of >30 msec were noted in 64 (29%) subjects. Forty-six out of 64 subjects with QTc prolongations were further evaluated and 39% (18/46) showed associated cardiac rhythm changes. The effects of concomitant drugs were not studied."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
