https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Riociguat+AND+Tablets&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "RIOCIGUAT"
        "brand_name": [
          "Adempas"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS -Strong CYP and P-gp/BCRP inhibitors: For patients receiving strong CYP and P-gp/BCRP inhibitors, consider a starting dose of 0.5 mg three times a day. Monitor for hypotension. (7.2) -Antacids: Separate administration by at least 1 hour. (7.2) 7.1 Pharmacodynamic Interactions with Adempas Nitrates: Co-administration of Adempas with nitrates or nitric oxide donors (such as amyl nitrite) in any form is contraindicated because of hypotension [see Contraindications (4.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. PDE Inhibitors: Co-administration of Adempas with specific PDE-5 inhibitors (such as sildenafil, tadalafil, or vardenafil) and nonspecific PDE inhibitors (such as dipyridamole or theophylline), is contraindicated because of hypotension [see Contraindications (4.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Clinical experience with co-administration of Adempas and other phosphodiesterase inhibitors (for example, milrinone, cilostazole, roflumilast) is limited. 7.2 Pharmacokinetic Interactions with Adempas Smoking: Plasma concentrations in smokers are reduced by 50-60% compared to nonsmokers. Based on pharmacokinetic modeling, for patients who are smokers, doses higher than 2.5 mg three times a day may be considered in order to match exposure seen in nonsmoking patients. Safety and effectiveness of Adempas doses higher than 2.5 mg three times a day have not been established. A dose reduction should be considered in patients who stop smoking [see Dosage and Administration (2.4) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Strong CYP and P-gp/BCRP inhibitors: Concomitant use of riociguat with strong cytochrome CYP inhibitors and P-gp/BCRP inhibitors such as azole antimycotics (for example, ketoconazole, itraconazole) or HIV protease inhibitors (such as ritonavir) increase riociguat exposure and may result in hypotension. Consider a starting dose of 0.5 mg 3 times a day when initiating Adempas in patients receiving strong CYP and P-gp/BCRP inhibitors. Monitor for signs and symptoms of hypotension on initiation and on treatment with strong CYP and P-gp/BCRP inhibitors. A dose reduction should be considered in patients who may not tolerate the hypotensive effect of riociguat [see Dosage and Administration (2.5), Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Strong CYP3A inducers: Strong inducers of CYP3A (for example, rifampin, phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital or St. John's Wort) may significantly reduce riociguat exposure. Data are not available to guide dosing of riociguat when strong CYP3A inducers are co-administered. [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Antacids: Antacids such as aluminum hydroxide/magnesium hydroxide decrease riociguat absorption and should not be taken within 1 hour of taking Adempas [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed elsewhere in the labeling: -Embryo-Fetal Toxicity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] -Hypotension [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] -Bleeding [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Adverse reactions occurring more frequently (>=3%) on Adempas compared to placebo are headache, dyspepsia/gastritis, dizziness, nausea, diarrhea, hypotension, vomiting, anemia, gastroesophageal reflux, and constipation. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals Inc. at 1-888-842-2937 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety data described below reflect exposure to Adempas in two, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled trials in patients with inoperable or recurrent/persistent CTEPH (CHEST-1) and treatment naive or pre-treated PAH patients (PATENT-1). The population (Adempas: n = 490; Placebo: n = 214) was between the age of 18 and 80 years [See Clinical Studies (14.1, 14.2)]. The safety profile of Adempas in patients with inoperable or recurrent/persistent CTEPH (CHEST-1) and treatment naive or pre-treated PAH (PATENT-1) were similar. Therefore, adverse drug reactions (ADRs) identified from the 12 and 16 week placebo-controlled trials for PAH and CTEPH respectively were pooled, and those occurring more frequently on Adempas than placebo (>=3%) are displayed in Table 1 below. Most adverse reactions in Table 1 can be ascribed to the vasodilatory mechanism of action of Adempas. The overall rates of discontinuation due to an adverse event in the pivotal placebo-controlled trials were 2.9% for Adempas and 5.1% for placebo (pooled data). Table 1: Adverse Reactions Occurring More Frequently (>=3%) on Adempas than Placebo (Pooled from CHEST-1 and PATENT-1) Adverse Reactions Adempas % (n=490) Placebo % (n=214) Headache 27 18 Dyspepsia and Gastritis 21 8 Dizziness 20 13 Nausea 14 11 Diarrhea 12 8 Hypotension 10 4 Vomiting 10 7 Anemia (including laboratory parameters) 7 2 Gastroesophageal reflux disease 5 2 Constipation 5 1 Other events that were seen more frequently in Adempas compared to placebo and potentially related to treatment were: palpitations, nasal congestion, epistaxis, dysphagia, abdominal distension and peripheral edema. With longer observation in uncontrolled long-term extension studies the safety profile was similar to that observed in the placebo controlled phase 3 trials."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Symptomatic hypotension (5.3) -Bleeding (5.4) -Pulmonary edema in patients with pulmonary veno-occlusive disease. If confirmed, discontinue treatment (5.5) 5.1 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity Adempas may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy and is contraindicated for use in women who are pregnant. In females of reproductive potential, exclude pregnancy prior to initiation of therapy, advise use of acceptable contraception and obtain monthly pregnancy tests. For Female, Adempas is only available through a restricted program under the Adempas REMS Program [see Dosage and Administration (2.3), Warnings and Precautions (5.2) and Use in Specific Populations (8.1, 8.6)]. 5.2 Adempas REMS Program Females can only receive Adempas through the Adempas Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) Program, a restricted distribution program [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Important requirements of the Adempas REMS Program include the following: -Prescribers must be certified with the program by enrolling and completing training. -All females, regardless of reproductive potential, must enroll in the Adempas REMS Program prior to initiating Adempas. Male patients are not enrolled in the Adempas REMS Program. -Female patients of reproductive potential must comply with the pregnancy testing and contraception requirements [see Use in Specific Populations (8.6)]. -Pharmacies must be certified with the program and must only dispense to patients who are authorized to receive Adempas. Further information, including a list of certified pharmacies, is available at www.AdempasREMS.com or 1-855-4 ADEMPAS. 5.3 Hypotension Adempas reduces blood pressure. Consider the potential for symptomatic hypotension or ischemia in patients with hypovolemia, severe left ventricular outflow obstruction, resting hypotension, autonomic dysfunction, or concomitant treatment with antihypertensives or strong CYP and P-gp/BCRP inhibitors [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Consider a dose reduction if patient develops signs or symptoms of hypotension. 5.4 Bleeding In the placebo-controlled clinical trials, serious bleeding occurred in 2.4% of patients taking Adempas compared to 0% of placebo patients. Serious hemoptysis occurred in 5 (1%) patients taking Adempas compared to 0 placebo patients, including one event with fatal outcome. Serious hemorrhagic events also included 2 patients with vaginal hemorrhage, 2 with catheter site hemorrhage, and 1 each with subdural hematoma, hematemesis, and intra-abdominal hemorrhage. 5.5 Pulmonary Veno-Occlusive Disease Pulmonary vasodilators may significantly worsen the cardiovascular status of patients with pulmonary veno-occlusive disease (PVOD). Therefore, administration of Adempas to such patients is not recommended. Should signs of pulmonary edema occur, the possibility of associated PVOD should be considered and, if confirmed, discontinue treatment with Adempas."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
