https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Romiplostim&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "ROMIPLOSTIM"
        "brand_name": [
          "Nplate"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS No formal drug interaction studies of Nplate have been performed."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following serious adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections: Progression of Myelodysplastic Syndromes [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.1 )] Thrombotic/Thromboembolic Complications [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.2 )] Loss of Response to Nplate [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.3 )] Laboratory Monitoring [see Warnings and Precautions ( 5.4 )] The most common adverse reactions (≥ 5% higher patient incidence in Nplate versus placebo) are arthralgia, dizziness, insomnia, myalgia, pain in extremity, abdominal pain, shoulder pain, dyspepsia, and paresthesia. Headache was the most commonly reported adverse reaction that did not occur at ≥ 5% higher patient incidence in Nplate versus placebo. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Amgen Inc. at 1-800-77-AMGEN (1-800-772-6436) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The data described below reflect Nplate exposure to 271 patients with chronic ITP, aged 18 to 88, of whom 62% were female. Nplate was studied in two randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind studies that were identical in design, with the exception that Study 1 evaluated nonsplenectomized patients with ITP and Study 2 evaluated splenectomized patients with ITP. Data are also reported from an open-label, single-arm study in which patients received Nplate over an extended period of time. Overall, Nplate was administered to 114 patients for at least 52 weeks and 53 patients for at least 96 weeks. In the placebo-controlled studies, headache was the most commonly reported adverse drug reaction, occurring in 35% of patients receiving Nplate and 32% of patients receiving placebo. Headaches were usually of mild or moderate severity. Table 2 presents adverse drug reactions from Studies 1 and 2 with a ≥ 5% higher patient incidence in Nplate versus placebo. The majority of these adverse drug reactions were mild to moderate in severity. Table 2. Adverse Drug Reactions Identified in Two Placebo-Controlled Studies Preferred Term Nplate (n = 84) Placebo (n = 41) Arthralgia 26% 20% Dizziness 17% 0% Insomnia 16% 7% Myalgia 14% 2% Pain in Extremity 13% 5% Abdominal Pain 11% 0% Shoulder Pain 8% 0% Dyspepsia 7% 0% Paresthesia 6% 0% Among 142 patients with chronic ITP who received Nplate in the single-arm extension study, the incidence rates of the adverse reactions occurred in a pattern similar to those reported in the placebo-controlled clinical studies. Bone Marrow Reticulin Formation and Collagen Fibrosis Nplate administration may increase the risk for development or progression of reticulin fiber formation within the bone marrow. This formation may improve upon discontinuation of Nplate. In a clinical trial, one patient with ITP and hemolytic anemia developed marrow fibrosis with collagen during Nplate therapy. An open-label clinical trial prospectively evaluated changes in bone marrow reticulin formation and collagen fibrosis in adult patients with ITP treated with Nplate or a non-US approved romiplostim product. Patients were administered romiplostim by SC injection once weekly for up to 3 years. Based on cohort assignment at time of study enrollment, patients were evaluated for bone marrow reticulin and collagen at year 1 (cohort 1), year 2 (cohort 2), or year 3 (cohort 3) in comparison to the baseline bone marrow at start of the trial. Patients were evaluated for bone marrow reticulin formation and collagen fibrosis using the modified Bauermeister grading scale. From the total of 169 patients enrolled in the 3 cohorts, 132 (78%) patients were evaluable for bone marrow collagen fibrosis and 131 (78%) patients were evaluable for bone marrow reticulin formation. Two percent (2/132) of patients (both from cohort 3) developed Grade 4 findings (presence of collagen). There was no detectable bone marrow collagen in one patient on repeat testing 12 weeks after discontinuation of romiplostim. Progression of bone marrow reticulin formation (increase greater than or equal to 2 grades or more) or an increase to Grade 4 (presence of collagen) was reported in 7% (9/131) of patients. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post approval use of Nplate. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Erythromelalgia Hypersensitivity Angioedema 6.3 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins, patients may develop antibodies to the therapeutic protein. Patients were screened for immunogenicity to romiplostim using a BIAcore-based biosensor immunoassay. This assay is capable of detecting both high- and low-affinity binding antibodies that bind to romiplostim and cross-react with TPO. The samples from patients that tested positive for binding antibodies were further evaluated for neutralizing capacity using a cell-based bioassay. In clinical studies in patients with ITP, the incidence of preexisting antibodies to romiplostim was 5% (53/1112) and the incidence of binding antibody development during treatment with Nplate or a non-US approved romiplostim product was 4% (50/1112). The incidence of preexisting antibodies to endogenous TPO was 4% (40/1112) and the incidence of binding antibody development to endogenous TPO during treatment was 3% (38/1112). Of the patients with positive binding antibodies that developed to romiplostim or to TPO, five patients had neutralizing activity to romiplostim and none had neutralizing activity to TPO. No apparent correlation was observed between antibody activity and clinical effectiveness or safety. A postmarketing registry study involving patients with thrombocytopenia on Nplate or a non-US approved romiplostim product was conducted to assess the long-term consequences of the anti-romiplostim antibodies. Patients who lacked response or lost response to Nplate or a non-US approved romiplostim product were enrolled. The incidence of new binding antibody development was 3% (5/186) to romiplostim and 1% (2/186) to TPO. One patient was positive for binding antibodies to both romiplostim and TPO. Of the five patients with positive binding antibodies to romiplostim, two (1%) were positive for neutralizing antibodies to romiplostim only. Immunogenicity assay results are highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay used in detection and may be influenced by several factors, including sample handling, concomitant medications, and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of incidence of antibodies to romiplostim with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS In some patients with MDS, Nplate increases blast cell counts and increases the risk of progression to acute myelogenous leukemia. (5.1) Thrombotic/thromboembolic complications may result from increases in platelet counts with Nplate use. Portal vein thrombosis has been reported in patients with chronic liver disease receiving Nplate. (5.2) If severe thrombocytopenia develops during Nplate treatment, assess patients for the formation of neutralizing antibodies. (5.3) 5.1 Risk of Progression of Myelodysplastic Syndromes to Acute Myelogenous Leukemia Progression from myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) to acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) has been observed in clinical trials with Nplate. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial enrolling patients with severe thrombocytopenia and International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) low or intermediate-1 risk MDS was terminated due to more cases of AML observed in the Nplate treatment arm. At the time of an interim analysis, among 219 MDS patients randomized 2:1 to treatment with Nplate or placebo (147 Nplate: 72 placebo), 11 patients showed progression to AML, including nine on the Nplate arm versus two on the placebo arm. In addition, in peripheral blood counts, the percentage of circulating myeloblasts increased to greater than 10% in 28 patients, 25 of whom were in the romiplostim treatment arm. Of the 28 patients who had an increase in circulating myeloblasts to greater than 10%, eight of these patients were diagnosed to have AML and 20 patients had not progressed to AML. In four patients, increased peripheral blood blast cell counts decreased to baseline after discontinuation of Nplate. In a single-arm trial of Nplate given to 72 patients with thrombocytopenia related to MDS, eight (11%) patients were reported as having possible disease progression, and three patients had confirmation of AML during follow-up. In addition, in three patients, increased peripheral blood blast cell counts decreased to baseline after discontinuation of Nplate. Nplate is not indicated for the treatment of thrombocytopenia due to MDS or any cause of thrombocytopenia other than chronic ITP. 5.2 Thrombotic/Thromboembolic Complications Thrombotic/thromboembolic complications may result from increases in platelet counts with Nplate use. Portal vein thrombosis has been reported in patients with chronic liver disease receiving Nplate. To minimize the risk for thrombotic/thromboembolic complications, do not use Nplate in an attempt to normalize platelet counts. Follow the dose adjustment guidelines [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) ]. 5.3 Loss of Response to Nplate Hyporesponsiveness or failure to maintain a platelet response with Nplate should prompt a search for causative factors, including neutralizing antibodies to Nplate [ see Adverse Reactions ( 6.3 ) ]. To detect antibody formation, submit blood samples to Amgen (1-800-772-6436). Amgen will assay these samples for antibodies to Nplate and thrombopoietin (TPO). Discontinue Nplate if the platelet count does not increase to a level sufficient to avoid clinically important bleeding after 4 weeks at the highest weekly dose of 10 mcg/kg. 5.4 Laboratory Monitoring Obtain CBCs, including platelet counts, weekly during the dose adjustment phase of Nplate therapy and then monthly following establishment of a stable Nplate dose. Obtain CBCs, including platelet counts, weekly for at least 2 weeks following discontinuation of Nplate [ see Dosage and Administration ( 2.1 ) ]."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
