https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Rosiglitazone+AND+Maleate+AND+and+AND+Glimepiride&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 5
        "generic_name": [
          "ROSIGLITAZONE MALEATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "AVANDIA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Inhibitors of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) may increase rosiglitazone levels; inducers of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may decrease rosiglitazone levels. (7.1) Revised: February 2009 AVD:28PI 7.1 CYP2C8 Inhibitors and Inducers An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) may increase the AUC of rosiglitazone and an inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may decrease the AUC of rosiglitazone. Therefore, if an inhibitor or an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with rosiglitazone, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based upon clinical response. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.4).]"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS Common adverse reactions (>5%) reported in clinical trials without regard to causality were upper respiratory tract infection, injury, and headache. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Adult In clinical trials, approximately 9,900 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with AVANDIA. Short-Term Trials of AVANDIA as Monotherapy and in Combination With Other Hypoglycemic Agents The incidence and types of adverse events reported in short-term clinical trials of AVANDIA as monotherapy are shown in Table 4. Table 4. Adverse Events (≥5% in Any Treatment Group) Reported by Patients in Short-Term* Double-Blind Clinical Trials With AVANDIA as Monotherapy * Short-term trials ranged from 8 weeks to 1 year. † Includes patients receiving glyburide (N = 514), gliclazide (N = 91), or glipizide (N = 21). Preferred Term AVANDIA Monotherapy Placebo Metformin Sulfonylureas† N = 2,526 N = 601 N = 225 N = 626 % % % % Upper respiratory tract infection 9.9 8.7 8.9 7.3 Injury 7.6 4.3 7.6 6.1 Headache 5.9 5.0 8.9 5.4 Back pain 4.0 3.8 4.0 5.0 Hyperglycemia 3.9 5.7 4.4 8.1 Fatigue 3.6 5.0 4.0 1.9 Sinusitis 3.2 4.5 5.3 3.0 Diarrhea 2.3 3.3 15.6 3.0 Hypoglycemia 0.6 0.2 1.3 5.9 Overall, the types of adverse reactions without regard to causality reported when AVANDIA was used in combination with a sulfonylurea or metformin were similar to those during monotherapy with AVANDIA. Events of anemia and edema tended to be reported more frequently at higher doses, and were generally mild to moderate in severity and usually did not require discontinuation of treatment with AVANDIA. In double-blind studies, anemia was reported in 1.9% of patients receiving AVANDIA as monotherapy compared to 0.7% on placebo, 0.6% on sulfonylureas, and 2.2% on metformin. Reports of anemia were greater in patients treated with a combination of AVANDIA and metformin (7.1%) and with a combination of AVANDIA and a sulfonylurea plus metformin (6.7%) compared to monotherapy with AVANDIA or in combination with a sulfonylurea (2.3%). Lower pre-treatment hemoglobin/hematocrit levels in patients enrolled in the metformin combination clinical trials may have contributed to the higher reporting rate of anemia in these studies [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. In clinical trials, edema was reported in 4.8% of patients receiving AVANDIA as monotherapy compared to 1.3% on placebo, 1.0% on sulfonylureas, and 2.2% on metformin. The reporting rate of edema was higher for AVANDIA 8 mg in sulfonylurea combinations (12.4%) compared to other combinations, with the exception of insulin. Edema was reported in 14.7% of patients receiving AVANDIA in the insulin combination trials compared to 5.4% on insulin alone. Reports of new onset or exacerbation of congestive heart failure occurred at rates of 1% for insulin alone, and 2% (4 mg) and 3% (8 mg) for insulin in combination with AVANDIA [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. In controlled combination therapy studies with sulfonylureas, mild to moderate hypoglycemic symptoms, which appear to be dose related, were reported. Few patients were withdrawn for hypoglycemia (<1%) and few episodes of hypoglycemia were considered to be severe (<1%). Hypoglycemia was the most frequently reported adverse event in the fixed-dose insulin combination trials, although few patients withdrew for hypoglycemia (4 of 408 for AVANDIA plus insulin and 1 of 203 for insulin alone). Rates of hypoglycemia, confirmed by capillary blood glucose concentration ≤50 mg/dL, were 6% for insulin alone and 12% (4 mg) and 14% (8 mg) for insulin in combination with AVANDIA. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.10).] Long-Term Trial of AVANDIA as Monotherapy A 4- to 6-year study (ADOPT) compared the use of AVANDIA (n = 1,456), glyburide (n = 1,441), and metformin (n = 1,454) as monotherapy in patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes who were not previously treated with antidiabetic medication. Table 5 presents adverse reactions without regard to causality; rates are expressed per 100 patient-years (PY) exposure to account for the differences in exposure to study medication across the 3 treatment groups. In ADOPT, fractures were reported in a greater number of women treated with AVANDIA (9.3%, 2.7/100 patient-years) compared to glyburide (3.5%, 1.3/100 patient-years) or metformin (5.1%, 1.5/100 patient-years). The majority of the fractures in the women who received rosiglitazone were reported in the upper arm, hand, and foot. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.7).] The observed incidence of fractures for male patients was similar among the 3 treatment groups. Table 5. On-Therapy Adverse Events (≥5 Events/100 Patient-Years [PY]) in Any Treatment Group Reported in a 4- to 6-Year Clinical Trial of AVANDIA as Monotherapy (ADOPT) AVANDIA Glyburide Metformin N = 1,456 N = 1,441 N = 1,454 PY = 4,954 PY = 4,244 PY = 4,906 Nasopharyngitis 6.3 6.9 6.6 Back pain 5.1 4.9 5.3 Arthralgia 5.0 4.8 4.2 Hypertension 4.4 6.0 6.1 Upper respiratory tract infection 4.3 5.0 4.7 Hypoglycemia 2.9 13.0 3.4 Diarrhea 2.5 3.2 6.8 Pediatric AVANDIA has been evaluated for safety in a single, active-controlled trial of pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes in which 99 were treated with AVANDIA and 101 were treated with metformin. The most common adverse reactions (>10%) without regard to causality for either AVANDIA or metformin were headache (17% versus 14%), nausea (4% versus 11%), nasopharyngitis (3% versus 12%), and diarrhea (1% versus 13%). In this study, one case of diabetic ketoacidosis was reported in the metformin group. In addition, there were 3 patients in the rosiglitazone group who had FPG of ∼300 mg/dL, 2+ ketonuria, and an elevated anion gap. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Hematologic Decreases in mean hemoglobin and hematocrit occurred in a dose-related fashion in adult patients treated with AVANDIA (mean decreases in individual studies as much as 1.0 g/dL hemoglobin and as much as 3.3% hematocrit). The changes occurred primarily during the first 3 months following initiation of therapy with AVANDIA or following a dose increase in AVANDIA. The time course and magnitude of decreases were similar in patients treated with a combination of AVANDIA and other hypoglycemic agents or monotherapy with AVANDIA. Pre-treatment levels of hemoglobin and hematocrit were lower in patients in metformin combination studies and may have contributed to the higher reporting rate of anemia. In a single study in pediatric patients, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of 0.29 g/dL and 0.95%, respectively) were reported. Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit have also been reported in pediatric patients treated with AVANDIA. White blood cell counts also decreased slightly in adult patients treated with AVANDIA. Decreases in hematologic parameters may be related to increased plasma volume observed with treatment with AVANDIA. Lipids Changes in serum lipids have been observed following treatment with AVANDIA in adults [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Small changes in serum lipid parameters were reported in children treated with AVANDIA for 24 weeks. Serum Transaminase Levels In pre-approval clinical studies in 4,598 patients treated with AVANDIA (3,600 patient-years of exposure) and in a long-term 4- to 6-year study in 1,456 patients treated with AVANDIA (4,954 patient-years exposure), there was no evidence of drug-induced hepatotoxicity. In pre-approval controlled trials, 0.2% of patients treated with AVANDIA had elevations in ALT >3X the upper limit of normal compared to 0.2% on placebo and 0.5% on active comparators. The ALT elevations in patients treated with AVANDIA were reversible. Hyperbilirubinemia was found in 0.3% of patients treated with AVANDIA compared with 0.9% treated with placebo and 1% in patients treated with active comparators. In pre-approval clinical trials, there were no cases of idiosyncratic drug reactions leading to hepatic failure. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6).] In the 4- to 6-year ADOPT trial, patients treated with AVANDIA (4,954 patient-years exposure), glyburide (4,244 patient-years exposure), or metformin (4,906 patient-years exposure), as monotherapy, had the same rate of ALT increase to >3X upper limit of normal (0.3 per 100 patient-years exposure). 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the events described below have been identified during post-approval use of AVANDIA. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to always establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. In patients receiving thiazolidinedione therapy, serious adverse events with or without a fatal outcome, potentially related to volume expansion (e.g., congestive heart failure, pulmonary edema, and pleural effusions) have been reported [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. There are postmarketing reports with AVANDIA of hepatitis, hepatic enzyme elevations to 3 or more times the upper limit of normal, and hepatic failure with and without fatal outcome, although causality has not been established. There are postmarketing reports with AVANDIA of rash, pruritus, urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactic reaction, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and new onset or worsening diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Fluid retention, which may exacerbate or lead to heart failure, may occur. Combination use with insulin and use in congestive heart failure NYHA Class I and II may increase risk of other cardiovascular effects. (5.1, 5.3) Increased risk of myocardial ischemic events has been observed in a meta-analysis of 42 clinical trials (incidence rate 2% versus 1.5%). (5.2) Use of AVANDIA with nitrates is not recommended. (1.2, 5.2) Coadministration of AVANDIA and insulin is not recommended. (1.2, 5.3) Dose-related edema (5.4), weight gain (5.5), and anemia (5.9) may occur. Macular edema has been reported. (5.7) Increased incidence of bone fracture in female patients. (5.8) There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with AVANDIA or any other oral antidiabetic drug. (5.2) 5.1 Cardiac Failure AVANDIA, like other thiazolidinediones, alone or in combination with other antidiabetic agents, can cause fluid retention, which may exacerbate or lead to heart failure. Patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure. If these signs and symptoms develop, the heart failure should be managed according to current standards of care. Furthermore, discontinuation or dose reduction of rosiglitazone must be considered [see Boxed Warning]. Patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) NYHA Class I and II treated with AVANDIA have an increased risk of cardiovascular events. A 52-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled echocardiographic study was conducted in 224 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and NYHA Class I or II CHF (ejection fraction ≤45%) on background antidiabetic and CHF therapy. An independent committee conducted a blinded evaluation of fluid-related events (including congestive heart failure) and cardiovascular hospitalizations according to predefined criteria (adjudication). Separate from the adjudication, other cardiovascular adverse events were reported by investigators. Although no treatment difference in change from baseline of ejection fractions was observed, more cardiovascular adverse events were observed following treatment with AVANDIA compared to placebo during the 52-week study. (See Table 1.) Table 1. Emergent Cardiovascular Adverse Events in Patients With Congestive Heart Failure (NYHA Class I and II) Treated With AVANDIA or Placebo (in Addition to Background Antidiabetic and CHF Therapy) * Includes hospitalization for any cardiovascular reason. Events AVANDIA Placebo N = 110 n (%) N = 114 n (%) Adjudicated Cardiovascular deaths 5 (5%) 4 (4%) CHF worsening 7 (6%) 4 (4%) – with overnight hospitalization 5 (5%) 4 (4%) – without overnight hospitalization 2 (2%) 0 (0%) New or worsening edema 28 (25%) 10 (9%) New or worsening dyspnea 29 (26%) 19 (17%) Increases in CHF medication 36 (33%) 20 (18%) Cardiovascular hospitalization* 21 (19%) 15 (13%) Investigator-reported, non-adjudicated Ischemic adverse events 10 (9%) 5 (4%) – Myocardial infarction 5 (5%) 2 (2%) – Angina 6 (5%) 3 (3%) Initiation of AVANDIA in patients with established NYHA Class III or IV heart failure is contraindicated. AVANDIA is not recommended in patients with symptomatic heart failure. [See Boxed Warning.] Patients experiencing acute coronary syndromes have not been studied in controlled clinical trials. In view of the potential for development of heart failure in patients having an acute coronary event, initiation of AVANDIA is not recommended for patients experiencing an acute coronary event, and discontinuation of AVANDIA during this acute phase should be considered. Patients with NYHA Class III and IV cardiac status (with or without CHF) have not been studied in controlled clinical trials. AVANDIA is not recommended in patients with NYHA Class III and IV cardiac status. 5.2 Myocardial Ischemia Meta-Analysis of Myocardial Ischemia in a Group of 42 Clinical Trials A meta-analysis was conducted retrospectively to assess cardiovascular adverse events reported across 42 double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trials (mean duration 6 months).1 These studies had been conducted to assess glucose-lowering efficacy in type 2 diabetes, and prospectively planned adjudication of cardiovascular events had not occurred in the trials. Some trials were placebo-controlled and some used active oral antidiabetic drugs as controls. Placebo-controlled studies included monotherapy trials (monotherapy with AVANDIA versus placebo monotherapy) and add-on trials (AVANDIA or placebo, added to sulfonylurea, metformin, or insulin). Active control studies included monotherapy trials (monotherapy with AVANDIA versus sulfonylurea or metformin monotherapy) and add-on trials (AVANDIA plus sulfonylurea or AVANDIA plus metformin, versus sulfonylurea plus metformin). A total of 14,237 patients were included (8,604 in treatment groups containing AVANDIA, 5,633 in comparator groups), with 4,143 patient-years of exposure to AVANDIA and 2,675 patient-years of exposure to comparator. Myocardial ischemic events included angina pectoris, angina pectoris aggravated, unstable angina, cardiac arrest, chest pain, coronary artery occlusion, dyspnea, myocardial infarction, coronary thrombosis, myocardial ischemia, coronary artery disease, and coronary artery disorder. In this analysis, an increased risk of myocardial ischemia with AVANDIA versus pooled comparators was observed (2% AVANDIA versus 1.5% comparators, odds ratio 1.4, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.1, 1.8). An increased risk of myocardial ischemic events with AVANDIA was observed in the placebo-controlled studies, but not in the active-controlled studies. (See Figure 1.) A greater increased risk of myocardial ischemic events was observed in studies where AVANDIA was added to insulin (2.8% for AVANDIA plus insulin versus 1.4% for placebo plus insulin, [OR 2.1, 95% CI 0.9, 5.1]). This increased risk reflects a difference of 3 events per 100 patient-years (95% CI -0.1, 6.3) between treatment groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3).] Figure 1. Forest Plot of Odds Ratios (95% Confidence Intervals) for Myocardial Ischemic Events in the Meta-Analysis of 42 Clinical Trials A greater increased risk of myocardial ischemia was also observed in patients who received AVANDIA and background nitrate therapy. For AVANDIA (N = 361) versus control (N = 244) in nitrate users, the odds ratio was 2.9 (95% CI 1.4, 5.9), while for non-nitrate users (about 14,000 patients total), the odds ratio was 1.3 (95% CI 0.9, 1.7). This increased risk represents a difference of 12 myocardial ischemic events per 100 patient-years (95% CI 3.3, 21.4). Most of the nitrate users had established coronary heart disease. Among patients with known coronary heart disease who were not on nitrate therapy, an increased risk of myocardial ischemic events for AVANDIA versus comparator was not demonstrated. Myocardial Ischemic Events in Large, Long-Term, Prospective, Randomized, Controlled Trials of AVANDIA Data from 3 other large, long-term, prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trials of AVANDIA were assessed separately from the meta-analysis. These 3 trials include a total of 14,067 patients (treatment groups containing AVANDIA N = 6,311, comparator groups N = 7,756), with patient-year exposure of 21,803 patient-years for AVANDIA and 25,998 patient-years for comparator. Duration of follow-up exceeded 3 years in each study. ADOPT (A Diabetes Outcomes Progression Trial) was a 4- to 6-year randomized, active-controlled study in recently diagnosed patients with type 2 diabetes naïve to drug therapy. It was an efficacy and general safety trial that was designed to examine the durability of AVANDIA as monotherapy (N = 1,456) for glycemic control in type 2 diabetes, with comparator arms of sulfonylurea monotherapy (N = 1,441) and metformin monotherapy (N = 1,454). DREAM (Diabetes Reduction Assessment with Rosiglitazone and Ramipril Medication, published report2) was a 3- to 5-year randomized, placebo-controlled study in patients with impaired glucose tolerance and/or impaired fasting glucose. It had a 2x2 factorial design, intended to evaluate the effect of AVANDIA, and separately of ramipril (an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor [ACEI]), on progression to overt diabetes. In DREAM, 2,635 patients were in treatment groups containing AVANDIA, and 2,634 were in treatment groups not containing AVANDIA. Interim results have been published3 for RECORD (Rosiglitazone Evaluated for Cardiac Outcomes and Regulation of Glycemia in Diabetes), an ongoing open-label, 6-year cardiovascular outcomes study in patients with type 2 diabetes with an average treatment duration of 3.75 years. RECORD includes patients who have failed metformin or sulfonylurea monotherapy; those who have failed metformin are randomized to receive either add-on AVANDIA or add-on sulfonylurea, and those who have failed sulfonylurea are randomized to receive either add-on AVANDIA or add-on metformin. In RECORD, a total of 2,220 patients are receiving add-on AVANDIA, and 2,227 patients are on one of the add-on regimens not containing AVANDIA. For these 3 trials, analyses were performed using a composite of major adverse cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction, cardiovascular death, or stroke), referred to hereafter as MACE. This endpoint differed from the meta-analysis’ broad endpoint of myocardial ischemic events, more than half of which were angina. Myocardial infarction included adjudicated fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarction plus sudden death. As shown in Figure 2, the results for the 3 endpoints (MACE, MI, and Total Mortality) were not statistically significantly different between AVANDIA and comparators. Figure 2. Hazard Ratios for the Risk of MACE (Myocardial Infarction, Cardiovascular Death, or Stroke), Myocardial Infarction, and Total Mortality With AVANDIA Compared With a Control Group In preliminary analyses of the DREAM trial, the incidence of cardiovascular events was higher among subjects who received AVANDIA in combination with ramipril than among subjects who received ramipril alone, as illustrated in Figure 2. This finding was not confirmed in ADOPT and RECORD (active-controlled trials in patients with diabetes) in which 30% and 40% of patients respectively, reported ACE-inhibitor use at baseline. In their entirety, the available data on the risk of myocardial ischemia are inconclusive. Definitive conclusions regarding this risk await completion of an adequately-designed cardiovascular outcome study. There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with AVANDIA or any other oral antidiabetic drug. 5.3 Congestive Heart Failure and Myocardial Ischemia During Coadministration of AVANDIA With Insulin In studies in which AVANDIA was added to insulin, AVANDIA increased the risk of congestive heart failure and myocardial ischemia. (See Table 2.) Coadministration of AVANDIA and insulin is not recommended. [See Indications and Usage (1.2) and Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2).] In five, 26-week, controlled, randomized, double-blind trials which were included in the meta-analysis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)], patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were randomized to coadministration of AVANDIA and insulin (N = 867) or insulin (N = 663). In these 5 trials, AVANDIA was added to insulin. These trials included patients with long-standing diabetes (median duration of 12 years) and a high prevalence of pre-existing medical conditions, including peripheral neuropathy, retinopathy, ischemic heart disease, vascular disease, and congestive heart failure. The total number of patients with emergent congestive heart failure was 21 (2.4%) and 7 (1.1%) in the AVANDIA plus insulin and insulin groups, respectively. The total number of patients with emergent myocardial ischemia was 24 (2.8%) and 9 (1.4%) in the AVANDIA plus insulin and insulin groups, respectively (OR 2.1 [95% CI 0.9, 5.1]). Although the event rate for congestive heart failure and myocardial ischemia was low in the studied population, consistently the event rate was 2-fold or higher with coadministration of AVANDIA and insulin. These cardiovascular events were noted at both the 4 mg and 8 mg daily doses of AVANDIA. (See Table 2.) Table 2. Occurrence of Cardiovascular Events in 5 Controlled Trials of Addition of AVANDIA to Established Insulin Treatment * Events are not exclusive; i.e., a patient with a cardiovascular death due to a myocardial infarction would be counted in 4 event categories (myocardial ischemia; cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or stroke; myocardial infarction; cardiovascular death). Event* AVANDIA + Insulin (n = 867) n (%) Insulin (n = 663) n (%) Congestive heart failure 21 (2.4%) 7 (1.1%) Myocardial ischemia 24 (2.8%) 9 (1.4%) Composite of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or stroke 10 (1.2%) 5 (0.8%) Stroke 5 (0.6%) 4 (0.6%) Myocardial infarction 4 (0.5%) 1 (0.2%) Cardiovascular death 4 (0.5%) 1 (0.2%) All deaths 6 (0.7%) 1 (0.2%) In a sixth, 24-week, controlled, randomized, double-blind trial of AVANDIA and insulin coadministration, insulin was added to AVANDAMET® (rosiglitazone maleate and metformin HCl) (n = 161) and compared to insulin plus placebo (n = 158), after a single-blind 8-week run-in with AVANDAMET. Patients with edema requiring pharmacologic therapy and those with congestive heart failure were excluded at baseline and during the run-in period. In the group receiving AVANDAMET plus insulin, there was one myocardial ischemic event and one sudden death. No myocardial ischemia was observed in the insulin group, and no congestive heart failure was reported in either treatment group. 5.4 Edema AVANDIA should be used with caution in patients with edema. In a clinical study in healthy volunteers who received 8 mg of AVANDIA once daily for 8 weeks, there was a statistically significant increase in median plasma volume compared to placebo. Since thiazolidinediones, including rosiglitazone, can cause fluid retention, which can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure, AVANDIA should be used with caution in patients at risk for heart failure. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of heart failure [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Patient Counseling Information (17.1)]. In controlled clinical trials of patients with type 2 diabetes, mild to moderate edema was reported in patients treated with AVANDIA, and may be dose related. Patients with ongoing edema were more likely to have adverse events associated with edema if started on combination therapy with insulin and AVANDIA [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.5 Weight Gain Dose-related weight gain was seen with AVANDIA alone and in combination with other hypoglycemic agents (Table 3). The mechanism of weight gain is unclear but probably involves a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation. In postmarketing experience, there have been reports of unusually rapid increases in weight and increases in excess of that generally observed in clinical trials. Patients who experience such increases should be assessed for fluid accumulation and volume-related events such as excessive edema and congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning]. Table 3. Weight Changes (kg) From Baseline at Endpoint During Clinical Trials Control Group AVANDIA 4 mg AVANDIA 8 mg Monotherapy Duration Median (25th, 75th percentile) Median (25th, 75th percentile) Median (25th, 75th percentile) 26 weeks placebo -0.9 (-2.8, 0.9) N = 210 1.0 (-0.9, 3.6) N = 436 3.1 (1.1, 5.8) N = 439 52 weeks sulfonylurea 2.0 (0, 4.0) N = 173 2.0 (-0.6, 4.0) N = 150 2.6 (0, 5.3) N = 157 Combination therapy Sulfonylurea 24-26 weeks sulfonylurea 0 (-1.0, 1.3) N = 1,155 2.2 (0.5, 4.0) N = 613 3.5 (1.4, 5.9) N = 841 Metformin 26 weeks metformin -1.4 (-3.2, 0.2) N = 175 0.8 (-1.0, 2.6) N = 100 2.1 (0, 4.3) N = 184 Insulin 26 weeks insulin 0.9 (-0.5, 2.7) N = 162 4.1 (1.4, 6.3) N = 164 5.4 (3.4, 7.3) N = 150 Sulfonylurea + metformin 26 weeks sulfonylurea + metformin 0.2 (-1.2, 1.6) N = 272 2.5 (0.8, 4.6) N = 275 4.5 (2.4, 7.3) N = 276 In a 4- to 6-year, monotherapy, comparative trial (ADOPT) in patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes not previously treated with antidiabetic medication [see Clinical Studies (14.1)], the median weight change (25th, 75th percentiles) from baseline at 4 years was 3.5 kg (0.0, 8.1) for AVANDIA, 2.0 kg (-1.0, 4.8) for glyburide, and -2.4 kg (-5.4, 0.5) for metformin. In a 24-week study in pediatric patients aged 10 to 17 years treated with AVANDIA 4 to 8 mg daily, a median weight gain of 2.8 kg (25th, 75th percentiles: 0.0, 5.8) was reported. 5.6 Hepatic Effects Liver enzymes should be measured prior to the initiation of therapy with AVANDIA in all patients and periodically thereafter per the clinical judgment of the healthcare professional. Therapy with AVANDIA should not be initiated in patients with increased baseline liver enzyme levels (ALT >2.5X upper limit of normal). Patients with mildly elevated liver enzymes (ALT levels ≤2.5X upper limit of normal) at baseline or during therapy with AVANDIA should be evaluated to determine the cause of the liver enzyme elevation. Initiation of, or continuation of, therapy with AVANDIA in patients with mild liver enzyme elevations should proceed with caution and include close clinical follow-up, including liver enzyme monitoring, to determine if the liver enzyme elevations resolve or worsen. If at any time ALT levels increase to >3X the upper limit of normal in patients on therapy with AVANDIA, liver enzyme levels should be rechecked as soon as possible. If ALT levels remain >3X the upper limit of normal, therapy with AVANDIA should be discontinued. If any patient develops symptoms suggesting hepatic dysfunction, which may include unexplained nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fatigue, anorexia and/or dark urine, liver enzymes should be checked. The decision whether to continue the patient on therapy with AVANDIA should be guided by clinical judgment pending laboratory evaluations. If jaundice is observed, drug therapy should be discontinued. [See Adverse Reactions (6.2, 6.3).] 5.7 Macular Edema Macular edema has been reported in postmarketing experience in some diabetic patients who were taking AVANDIA or another thiazolidinedione. Some patients presented with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity, but some patients appear to have been diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination. Most patients had peripheral edema at the time macular edema was diagnosed. Some patients had improvement in their macular edema after discontinuation of their thiazolidinedione. Patients with diabetes should have regular eye exams by an ophthalmologist, per the Standards of Care of the American Diabetes Association. Additionally, any diabetic who reports any kind of visual symptom should be promptly referred to an ophthalmologist, regardless of the patient’s underlying medications or other physical findings. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1).] 5.8 Fractures In a 4- to 6-year comparative study (ADOPT) of glycemic control with monotherapy in drug-naïve patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus, an increased incidence of bone fracture was noted in female patients taking AVANDIA. Over the 4- to 6-year period, the incidence of bone fracture in females was 9.3% (60/645) for AVANDIA versus 3.5% (21/605) for glyburide and 5.1% (30/590) for metformin. This increased incidence was noted after the first year of treatment and persisted during the course of the study. The majority of the fractures in the women who received AVANDIA occurred in the upper arm, hand, and foot. These sites of fracture are different from those usually associated with postmenopausal osteoporosis (e.g., hip or spine). No increase in fracture rates was observed in men treated with AVANDIA. The risk of fracture should be considered in the care of patients, especially female patients, treated with AVANDIA, and attention given to assessing and maintaining bone health according to current standards of care. 5.9 Hematologic Effects Decreases in mean hemoglobin and hematocrit occurred in a dose-related fashion in adult patients treated with AVANDIA [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The observed changes may be related to the increased plasma volume observed with treatment with AVANDIA. 5.10 Diabetes and Blood Glucose Control Patients receiving AVANDIA in combination with other hypoglycemic agents may be at risk for hypoglycemia, and a reduction in the dose of the concomitant agent may be necessary. Periodic fasting blood glucose and HbA1c measurements should be performed to monitor therapeutic response. 5.11 Ovulation Therapy with AVANDIA, like other thiazolidinediones, may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women. As a result, these patients may be at an increased risk for pregnancy while taking AVANDIA [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Thus, adequate contraception in premenopausal women should be recommended. This possible effect has not been specifically investigated in clinical studies; therefore, the frequency of this occurrence is not known. Although hormonal imbalance has been seen in preclinical studies [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)], the clinical significance of this finding is not known. If unexpected menstrual dysfunction occurs, the benefits of continued therapy with AVANDIA should be reviewed. Figure 1. Forest Plot of Odds Ratios (95% Confidence Intervals) for Myocardial Ischemic Events in the Meta-Analysis of 42 Clinical Trials Figure 2. Hazard Ratios for the Risk of MACE (Myocardial Infarction, Cardiovascular Death, or Stroke), Myocardial Infarction, and Total Mortality With AVANDIA Compared With a Control Group"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Rosiglitazone+AND+Maleate+AND+and+AND+Glimepiride&limit=1&skip=1
Page 1 of 5
        "generic_name": [
          "ROSIGLITAZONE MALEATE AND GLIMEPIRIDE"
        "brand_name": [
          "AVANDARYL"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS •Inhibitors of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) may increase rosiglitazone levels. (7.1) •Inducers of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may decrease rosiglitazone levels. (7.1) •Inhibitors and inducers of CYP2C9 may affect glycemic control by altering glimepiride plasma concentrations. (7.1) •Certain medications may affect glucose metabolism, requiring glimepiride dose adjustment and close monitoring of blood glucose. (7.2) •Miconazole: Severe hypoglycemia can occur when glimepiride and oral miconazole are used concomitantly. (7.3) •Colesevelam: Coadministration may reduce glimepiride absorption. AVANDARYL should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam. (2.1, 7.4) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 Rosiglitazone: An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) may increase the AUC of rosiglitazone and an inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may decrease the AUC of rosiglitazone. Therefore, if an inhibitor or an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with rosiglitazone, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based upon clinical response. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.4).] A potential interaction between oral miconazole and oral hypoglycemic agents leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with the IV, topical, or vaginal preparations of miconazole is not known. Potential interactions of glimepiride with other drugs metabolized by cytochrome P450 2C9 also include phenytoin, diclofenac, ibuprofen, naproxen, and mefenamic acid. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.4).] Glimepiride: There may be an interaction between glimepiride and inhibitors (e.g., fluconazole) and inducers (e.g., rifampin) of CYP 2C9. Fluconazole may inhibit the metabolism of glimepiride, causing increased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to hypoglycemia. Rifampin may induce the metabolism of glimepiride, causing decreased plasma concentrations of glimepiride which may lead to worsening glycemic control. 7.2 Drugs Affecting Glucose Metabolism A number of medications affect glucose metabolism and may require glimepiride dose adjustment and particularly close monitoring for hypoglycemia or worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may increase the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, increasing the susceptibility to and/or intensity of hypoglycemia: oral anti-diabetic medications, pramlintide acetate, insulin, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, H2 receptor antagonists, fibrates, propoxyphene, pentoxifylline, somatostatin analogs, anabolic steroids and androgens, cyclophosphamide, phenyramidol, guanethidine, fluconazole, sulfinpyrazone, tetracyclines, clarithromycin, disopyramide, quinolones, and those drugs that are highly protein-bound, such as fluoxetine, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, salicylates, sulfonamides, chloramphenicol, coumarins, probenecid, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving AVANDARYL, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving AVANDARYL, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. The following are examples of medications that may reduce the glucose-lowering effect of sulfonylureas including glimepiride, leading to worsening glycemic control: danazol, glucagon, somatropin, protease inhibitors, atypical antipsychotic medications (e.g., olanzapine and clozapine), barbiturates, diazoxide, laxatives, rifampin, thiazides and other diuretics, corticosteroids, phenothiazines, thyroid hormones, estrogens, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, nicotinic acid, sympathomimetics (e.g., epinephrine, albuterol, and terbutaline), and isoniazid. When these medications are administered to a patient receiving AVANDARYL, monitor the patient closely for worsening glycemic control. When these medications are withdrawn from a patient receiving AVANDARYL, monitor the patient closely for hypoglycemia. Beta-blockers, clonidine, and reserpine may lead to either potentiation or weakening of glimepiride’s glucose-lowering effect. Both acute and chronic alcohol intake may potentiate or weaken the glucose-lowering action of glimepiride in an unpredictable fashion. The signs of hypoglycemia may be reduced or absent in patients taking sympatholytic drugs such as beta-blockers, clonidine, guanethidine, and reserpine. 7.3 Miconazole A potential interaction between oral miconazole and sulfonylureas leading to severe hypoglycemia has been reported. Whether this interaction also occurs with other dosage forms of miconazole is not known. 7.4 Concomitant Administration of Colesevelam Colesevelam can reduce the maximum plasma concentration and total exposure of glimepiride when the two are coadministered. However, absorption is not reduced when glimepiride is administered 4 hours prior to colesevelam. Therefore, AVANDARYL should be administered at least 4 hours prior to colesevelam."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail elsewhere in the labeling: •Cardiac Failure With Rosiglitazone [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] •Hypoglycemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] •Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Weight Gain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Hepatic Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] •Macular Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] •Fractures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] •Hematologic Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] •Hemolytic Anemia [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] •Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality for Sulfonylurea Drugs [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] •Ovulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.14)] Common adverse reactions (≥5%) reported in clinical trials for AVANDARYL without regard to causality were headache, hypoglycemia, and nasopharyngitis. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Patients With Inadequate Glycemic Control on Diet and Exercise: Table 3 summarizes adverse events occurring at a frequency of ≥5% in any treatment group in the 28‑week, double-blind trial of AVANDARYL in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled on diet and exercise. Patients in this trial were started on AVANDARYL 4 mg/1 mg, rosiglitazone 4 mg, or glimepiride 1 mg. Doses could be increased at 4-week intervals to reach a maximum total daily dose of either 4 mg/4 mg or 8 mg/4 mg for AVANDARYL, 8 mg for rosiglitazone monotherapy, or 4 mg for glimepiride monotherapy. Table 3. Adverse Events (≥5% in any Treatment Group) Reported by Patients With Inadequate Glycemic Control on Diet and Exercise in a 28‑Week, Double‑blind Clinical Trial of AVANDARYL Preferred Term Glimepiride Monotherapy Rosiglitazone Monotherapy AVANDARYL 4 mg/4 mg AVANDARYL 8 mg/4 mg N = 222 N = 230 N = 224 N = 218 % % % % Headache 2.3 6.1 3.1 6.0 Nasopharyngitis 3.6 5.2 4.0 4.6 Hypertension 3.6 5.2 3.1 2.3 Hypoglycemiaa 4.1 0.4 3.6 5.5 a As documented by symptoms and a fingerstick blood glucose measurement of <50 mg/dL. Hypoglycemia was reported to be generally mild to moderate in intensity and none of the reported events of hypoglycemia resulted in withdrawal from the trial. Hypoglycemia requiring parenteral treatment (i.e., intravenous glucose or glucagon injection) was observed in 3 (0.7%) patients treated with AVANDARYL. Edema was reported by 3.2% of patients on AVANDARYL, 3.0% on rosiglitazone alone, and 2.3% on glimepiride alone. Congestive heart failure was observed in 1 (0.2%) patient treated with AVANDARYL and in 1 (0.4%) patient treated with rosiglitazone monotherapy. Patients Treated With Rosiglitazone Added to Sulfonylurea Monotherapy and Other Experience With Rosiglitazone or Glimepiride: Trials utilizing rosiglitazone in combination with a sulfonylurea provide support for the use of AVANDARYL. Adverse event data from these trials, in addition to adverse events reported with the use of rosiglitazone and glimepiride therapy, are presented below. Rosiglitazone: The most common adverse experiences with rosiglitazone monotherapy (≥5%) were upper respiratory tract infection, injury, and headache. Overall, the types of adverse experiences reported when rosiglitazone was added to a sulfonylurea were similar to those during monotherapy with rosiglitazone. In controlled combination therapy trials with sulfonylureas, mild to moderate hypoglycemic symptoms, which appear to be dose-related, were reported. Few patients were withdrawn for hypoglycemia (<1%) and few episodes of hypoglycemia were considered to be severe (<1%). Events of anemia and edema tended to be reported more frequently at higher doses, and were generally mild to moderate in severity and usually did not require discontinuation of treatment with rosiglitazone. Edema was reported by 4.8% of patients receiving rosiglitazone compared with 1.3% on placebo, and 1.0% on sulfonylurea monotherapy. The reporting rate of edema was higher for rosiglitazone 8 mg added to a sulfonylurea (12.4%) compared with other combinations, with the exception of insulin. Anemia was reported by 1.9% of patients receiving rosiglitazone compared with 0.7% on placebo, 0.6% on sulfonylurea monotherapy, and 2.3% on rosiglitazone in combination with a sulfonylurea. Overall, the types of adverse experiences reported when rosiglitazone was added to a sulfonylurea were similar to those during monotherapy with rosiglitazone. In 26-week, double-blind, fixed-dose trials, edema was reported with higher frequency in the rosiglitazone plus insulin combination trials (insulin, 5.4%; and rosiglitazone in combination with insulin, 14.7%). Reports of new onset or exacerbation of congestive heart failure occurred at rates of 1% for insulin alone, and 2% (4 mg) and 3% (8 mg) for insulin in combination with rosiglitazone [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Long-term Trial of Rosiglitazone as Monotherapy: A 4- to 6-year trial (ADOPT) compared the use of rosiglitazone (n = 1,456), glyburide (n = 1,441), and metformin (n = 1,454) as monotherapy in patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes who were not previously treated with antidiabetic medication. Table 4 presents adverse reactions without regard to causality; rates are expressed per 100 patient-years (PY) exposure to account for the differences in exposure to trial medication across the 3 treatment groups. In ADOPT, fractures were reported in a greater number of women treated with rosiglitazone (9.3%, 2.7/100 patient-years) compared with glyburide (3.5%, 1.3/100 patient-years) or metformin (5.1%, 1.5/100 patient-years). The majority of the fractures in the women who received rosiglitazone were reported in the upper arm, hand, and foot. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.8).] The observed incidence of fractures for male patients was similar among the 3 treatment groups. Table 4. On-therapy Adverse Events [≥5 Events/100 Patient-Years (PY)] in any Treatment Group Reported in a 4- to 6-Year Clinical Trial of Rosiglitazone as Monotherapy (ADOPT) Preferred Term Rosiglitazone Glyburide Metformin N = 1,456 N = 1,441 N = 1,454 PY = 4,954 PY = 4,244 PY = 4,906 Nasopharyngitis 6.3 6.9 6.6 Back pain 5.1 4.9 5.3 Arthralgia 5.0 4.8 4.2 Hypertension 4.4 6.0 6.1 Upper respiratory tract infection 4.3 5.0 4.7 Hypoglycemia 2.9 13.0 3.4 Diarrhea 2.5 3.2 6.8 Long-term Trial of Rosiglitazone as Combination Therapy (RECORD): RECORD (Rosiglitazone Evaluated for Cardiac Outcomes and Regulation of Glycemia in Diabetes) was a multicenter, randomized, open-label, non-inferiority trial in subjects with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on maximum doses of metformin or sulfonylurea (glyburide, gliclazide, or glimepiride) to compare the time to reach the combined cardiovascular endpoint of cardiovascular death or cardiovascular hospitalization between patients randomized to the addition of rosiglitazone versus metformin or sulfonylurea. The trial included patients who have failed metformin or sulfonylurea monotherapy; those who failed metformin (n = 2,222) were randomized to receive either add-on rosiglitazone (n = 1,117) or add-on sulfonylurea (n = 1,105), and those who failed sulfonylurea (n = 2,225) were randomized to receive either add-on rosiglitazone (n = 1,103) or add-on metformin (n = 1,122). Patients were treated to target HbA1c ≤7% throughout the trial. The mean age of patients in this trial was 58 years, 52% were male, and the mean duration of follow-up was 5.5 years. Rosiglitazone demonstrated non-inferiority to active control for the primary endpoint of cardiovascular hospitalization or cardiovascular death (HR 0.99, 95% CI: 0.85-1.16). There were no significant differences between groups for secondary endpoints with the exception of congestive heart failure (see Table 5). The incidence of congestive heart failure was significantly greater among patients randomized to rosiglitazone. Table 5. Cardiovascular (CV) Outcomes for the RECORD Trial Primary Endpoint Rosiglitazone N = 2,220 Active Control N = 2,227 Hazard Ratio 95% CI CV death or CV hospitalization 321 323 0.99 0.85-1.16 Secondary Endpoint All-cause death 136 157 0.86 0.68-1.08 CV death 60 71 0.84 0.59-1.18 Myocardial infarction 64 56 1.14 0.80-1.63 Stroke 46 63 0.72 0.49-1.06 CV death, myocardial infarction, or stroke 154 165 0.93 0.74-1.15 Heart failure 61 29 2.10 1.35-3.27 There was an increased incidence of bone fracture for subjects randomized to rosiglitazone in addition to metformin or sulfonylurea compared with those randomized to metformin plus sulfonylurea (8.3% versus 5.3%) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. The majority of fractures were reported in the upper limbs and distal lower limbs. The risk of fracture appeared to be higher in females relative to control (11.5% versus 6.3%), than in males relative to control (5.3% versus 4.3%). Additional data are necessary to determine whether there is an increased risk of fracture in males after a longer period of follow-up. Glimepiride: Approximately 2,800 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with glimepiride in the controlled clinical trials. In these trials, approximately 1,700 patients were treated with glimepiride for at least 1 year. Table 6 summarizes adverse events, other than hypoglycemia, that were reported in 11 pooled placebo-controlled trials, whether or not considered to be possibly or probably related to study medication. Treatment duration ranged from 13 weeks to 12 months. Terms that are reported represent those that occurred at an incidence of≥5% among glimepiride-treated patients and more commonly than in patients who received placebo. Table 6. Eleven Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials Ranging From 13 Weeks to 12 Months: Adverse Events (Excluding Hypoglycemia) Occurring in ≥5% of Glimepiride-Treated Patients and at a Greater Incidence Than With Placebo a Glimepiride Placebo N = 745 N = 294 Preferred Term % % Headache 8.2 7.8 Accidental injuryb 5.8 3.4 Flu syndrome 5.4 4.4 Nausea 5.0 3.4 Dizziness 5.0 2.4 a Glimepiride doses ranges from 1 to 16 mg administered daily. b Insufficient information to determine whether any of the accidental injury events were associated with hypoglycemia. Hypoglycemia: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 14 weeks duration, patients already on sulfonylurea therapy underwent a 3-week washout period then were randomized to glimepiride 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg or placebo. Patients randomized to glimepiride 4 mg or 8 mg underwent forced-titration from an initial dose of 1 mg to these final doses, as tolerated. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (defined by the presence of at least one symptom that the investigator believed might be related to hypoglycemia; a concurrent glucose measurement was not required) was 4% for glimepiride 1 mg, 17% for glimepiride 4 mg, 16% for glimepiride 8 mg, and 0% for placebo. All of these events were self-treated. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled monotherapy trial of 22 weeks duration, patients received a starting dose of either 1 mg glimepiride or placebo daily. The dose of glimepiride was titrated to a target fasting plasma glucose of 90 to 150 mg/dL. Final daily doses of glimepiride were 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, or 8 mg. The overall incidence of possible hypoglycemia (as defined above for the 14-week trial) for glimepiride versus placebo was 19.7% versus 3.2%. All of these events were self-treated. Weight Gain: Glimepiride, like all sulfonylureas, can cause weight gain. Allergic Reactions: In clinical trials, allergic reactions, such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of glimepiride-treated patients. These may resolve despite continued treatment with glimepiride. There are postmarketing reports of more serious allergic reactions (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, shock) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)]. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Rosiglitazone: Hematologic: Decreases in mean hemoglobin and hematocrit occurred in a dose-related fashion in adult patients treated with rosiglitazone (mean decreases in individual trials as much as 1.0 g/dL hemoglobin and as much as 3.3% hematocrit). The changes occurred primarily during the first 3 months following initiation of therapy with rosiglitazone or following a dose increase in rosiglitazone. The time course and magnitude of decreases were similar in patients treated with a combination of rosiglitazone and other hypoglycemic agents or monotherapy with rosiglitazone. White blood cell counts also decreased slightly in adult patients treated with rosiglitazone. Decreases in hematologic parameters may be related to increased plasma volume observed with treatment with rosiglitazone. Lipids: Changes in serum lipids have been observed following treatment with rosiglitazone in adults [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Serum Transaminase Levels: In pre-approval clinical trials in 4,598 patients treated with rosiglitazone encompassing approximately 3,600 patient-years of exposure, there was no evidence of drug-induced hepatotoxicity. In pre-approval controlled trials, 0.2% of patients treated with rosiglitazone had reversible elevations in ALT >3X the upper limit of normal compared with 0.2% on placebo and 0.5% on active comparators. The ALT elevations in patients treated with rosiglitazone were reversible. Hyperbilirubinemia was found in 0.3% of patients treated with rosiglitazone compared with 0.9% treated with placebo and 1% in patients treated with active comparators. In pre-approval clinical trials, there were no cases of idiosyncratic drug reactions leading to hepatic failure. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6).] In the 4- to 6-year ADOPT trial, patients treated with rosiglitazone (4,954 patient-years exposure), glyburide (4,244 patient-years exposure), or metformin (4,906 patient-years exposure) as monotherapy had the same rate of ALT increase to >3X upper limit of normal (0.3 per 100 patient-years exposure). In the RECORD trial, patients randomized to rosiglitazone in addition to metformin or sulfonylurea (10,849 patient-years exposure) and to metformin plus sulfonylurea (10,209 patient-years exposure) had a rate of ALT increase to ≥3X upper limit of normal of approximately 0.2 and 0.3 per 100 patient-years exposure, respectively. Glimepiride: Serum Transaminase Levels: In 11 pooled, placebo-controlled trials of glimepiride, 1.9% of glimepiride-treated patients and 0.8% of placebo-treated patients developed serum ALT >2X the upper limit of the reference range. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the events described below have been identified during post-approval use of AVANDARYL or its individual components. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to always establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Rosiglitazone: In patients receiving thiazolidinedione therapy, serious adverse events with or without a fatal outcome, potentially related to volume expansion (e.g., congestive heart failure, pulmonary edema, and pleural effusions) have been reported [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. There are postmarketing reports with rosiglitazone of hepatitis, hepatic enzyme elevations to 3 or more times the upper limit of normal, and hepatic failure with and without fatal outcome, although causality has not been established. There are postmarketing reports with rosiglitazone of rash, pruritus, urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactic reaction, Stevens-Johnson syndrome [see Contraindications (4)], and new onset or worsening diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. Glimepiride: •Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome[see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] •Hemolytic anemia in patients with and without G6PD deficiency [see Warnings and Precautions (5.11)] •Impairment of liver function (e.g., with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure •Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, and allergic vasculitis •Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia •Thrombocytopenia (including severe cases with platelet count less than 10,000/µL) and thrombocytopenic purpura •Hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions •Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone"
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Fluid retention, which may exacerbate or lead to heart failure, may occur. Combination use with insulin and use in congestive heart failure NYHA Class I and II may increase risk of other cardiovascular effects. (5.1) •Meta-analysis of 52 mostly short-term trials suggested a potential risk of ischemic cardiovascular (CV) events relative to placebo, not confirmed in a long-term CV outcome trial versus metformin or sulfonylurea. (5.2) •Severe hypoglycemia may occur. Use particular care in elderly or debilitated patients and those with adrenal, pituitary, renal, or hepatic insufficiency. (5.3) •Dose-related edema (5.4), weight gain (5.5), and anemia (5.10) may occur. •Macular edema has been reported. (5.7) •Increased incidence of bone fracture. (5.8) •Postmarketing reports for glimepiride include anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Promptly discontinue AVANDARYL, assess for other causes, institute appropriate monitoring and treatment, and initiate alternative treatment for diabetes. (5.9) •Hemolytic anemia can occur if glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficient. Consider a non-sulfonylurea alternative. (5.11) •Potential increased risk of cardiovascular mortality with sulfonylureas: Inform patients of risks, benefits and treatment alternatives. (5.12) 5.1 Cardiac Failure With Rosiglitazone Rosiglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, alone or in combination with other antidiabetic agents, can cause fluid retention, which may exacerbate or lead to heart failure. Patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure. If these signs and symptoms develop, the heart failure should be managed according to current standards of care. Furthermore, discontinuation or dose reduction of rosiglitazone must be considered [see Boxed Warning]. Patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) NYHA Class I and II treated with rosiglitazone have an increased risk of cardiovascular events. A 52-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, echocardiographic trial was conducted in 224 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and NYHA Class I or II CHF (ejection fraction ≤45%) on background antidiabetic and CHF therapy. An independent committee conducted a blinded evaluation of fluid-related events (including congestive heart failure) and cardiovascular hospitalizations according to predefined criteria (adjudication). Separate from the adjudication, other cardiovascular adverse events were reported by investigators. Although no treatment difference in change from baseline of ejection fractions was observed, more cardiovascular adverse events were observed with rosiglitazone treatment compared with placebo during the 52-week trial. (See Table 1.) Table 1. Emergent Cardiovascular Adverse Events in Patients With Congestive Heart Failure (NYHA Class I and II) Treated With Rosiglitazone or Placebo (in Addition to Background Antidiabetic and CHF Therapy) Events Rosiglitazone Placebo N = 110 n (%) N = 114 n (%) Adjudicated Cardiovascular deaths 5 (5%) 4 (4%) CHF worsening 7 (6%) 4 (4%) – with overnight hospitalization 5 (5%) 4 (4%) – without overnight hospitalization 2 (2%) 0 (0%) New or worsening edema 28 (25%) 10 (9%) New or worsening dyspnea 29 (26%) 19 (17%) Increases in CHF medication 36 (33%) 20 (18%) Cardiovascular hospitalizationa 21 (19%) 15 (13%) Investigator-reported, non-adjudicated Ischemic adverse events 10 (9%) 5 (4%) – Myocardial infarction 5 (5%) 2 (2%) – Angina 6 (5%) 3 (3%) a Includes hospitalization for any cardiovascular reason. In a long-term, cardiovascular outcome trial (RECORD) in patients with type 2 diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)], the incidence of heart failure was higher in patients treated with rosiglitazone [2.7% (61/2,220) compared with active control 1.3% (29/2,227), HR 2.10 (95% CI: 1.35, 3.27)]. Initiation of AVANDARYL in patients with established NYHA Class III or IV heart failure is contraindicated. AVANDARYL is not recommended in patients with symptomatic heart failure. [See Boxed Warning.] Patients experiencing acute coronary syndromes have not been studied in controlled clinical trials. In view of the potential for development of heart failure in patients having an acute coronary event, initiation of AVANDARYL is not recommended for patients experiencing an acute coronary event, and discontinuation of AVANDARYL during this acute phase should be considered. Patients with NYHA Class III and IV cardiac status (with or without CHF) have not been studied in controlled clinical trials. AVANDARYL is not recommended in patients with NYHA Class III and IV cardiac status. Congestive Heart Failure During Coadministration of Rosiglitazone With Insulin: In trials in which rosiglitazone was added to insulin, rosiglitazone increased the risk of congestive heart failure. Coadministration of rosiglitazone and insulin is not recommended. [See Indications and Usage (1), Warnings and Precautions (5.2).] In 7 controlled, randomized, double-blind trials which had durations from 16 to 26 weeks and which were included in a meta-analysis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)], patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were randomized to coadministration of rosiglitazone and insulin (N = 1,018) or insulin (N = 815). In these 7 trials, rosiglitazone was added to insulin. These trials included patients with long-standing diabetes (median duration of 12 years) and a high prevalence of pre-existing medical conditions, including peripheral neuropathy, retinopathy, ischemic heart disease, vascular disease, and congestive heart failure. The total number of patients with emergent congestive heart failure was 23 (2.3%) and 8 (1.0%) in the rosiglitazone plus insulin and insulin groups, respectively. Heart Failure in Observational Studies of Elderly Diabetic Patients Comparing Rosiglitazone to Pioglitazone: Three observational studies in elderly diabetic patients (age 65 years and older) found that rosiglitazone statistically significantly increased the risk of hospitalized heart failure compared to use of pioglitazone. One other observational study in patients with a mean age of 54 years, which also included an analysis in a subpopulation of patients >65 years of age, found no statistically significant increase in emergency department visits or hospitalization for heart failure in patients treated with rosiglitazone compared to pioglitazone in the older subgroup. 5.2 Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events Data from long-term, prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trials of rosiglitazone versus metformin or sulfonylureas, particularly a cardiovascular outcome trial (RECORD), observed no difference in overall mortality or in major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and its components. A meta-analysis of mostly short-term trials suggested an increased risk for myocardial infarction with rosiglitazone compared with placebo. Cardiovascular Events in Large, Long-term, Prospective, Randomized, Controlled Trials of Rosiglitazone: RECORD, a prospectively designed cardiovascular outcome trial (mean follow-up 5.5 years; 4,447 patients), compared the addition of rosiglitazone to metformin or a sulfonylurea (N = 2,220) with a control group of metformin plus sulfonylurea (N = 2,227) in patients with type 2 diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Non-inferiority was demonstrated for the primary endpoint, cardiovascular hospitalization or cardiovascular death, for rosiglitazone compared with control [HR 0.99 (95% CI: 0.85, 1.16)] demonstrating no overall increased risk in cardiovascular morbidity or mortality. The hazard ratios for total mortality and MACE were consistent with the primary endpoint and the 95% CI similarly excluded a 20% increase in risk for rosiglitazone. The hazard ratios for the components of MACE were 0.72 (95% CI: 0.49, 1.06) for stroke, 1.14 (95% CI: 0.80, 1.63) for myocardial infarction, and 0.84 (95% CI: 0.59, 1.18) for cardiovascular death. The results of RECORD are consistent with the findings of 2 earlier long-term, prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trials (each trial >3 years’ duration; total of 9,620 patients) (see Figure 1). In patients with impaired glucose tolerance (DREAM trial), although the incidence of cardiovascular events was higher among subjects who were randomized to rosiglitazone in combination with ramipril than among subjects randomized to ramipril alone, no statistically significant differences were observed for MACE and its components between rosiglitazone and placebo. In type 2 diabetes patients who were initiating oral agent monotherapy (ADOPT trial), no statistically significant differences were observed for MACE and its components between rosiglitazone and metformin or a sulfonylurea. Figure 1. Hazard Ratios for the Risk of MACE, Myocardial Infarction, and Total Mortality With Rosiglitazone Compared With a Control Group in Long-term Trials Cardiovascular Events in a Group of 52 Clinical Trials: In a meta-analysis of 52 double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trials designed to assess glucose-lowering efficacy in type 2 diabetes (mean duration 6 months), a statistically significant increased risk of myocardial infarction with rosiglitazone versus pooled comparators was observed [0.4% versus 0.3%; OR 1.8, (95% CI: 1.03, 3.25)]. A statistically non-significant increased risk of MACE was observed with rosiglitazone versus pooled comparators (OR 1.44, 95% CI: 0.95, 2.20). In the placebo-controlled trials, a statistically significant increased risk of myocardial infarction [0.4% versus 0.2%, OR 2.23 (95% CI: 1.14, 4.64)] and statistically non-significant increased risk of MACE [0.7% versus 0.5%, OR 1.53 (95% CI: 0.94, 2.54)] with rosiglitazone were observed. In the active-controlled trials, there was no increased risk of myocardial infarction or MACE. Mortality in Observational Studies of Rosiglitazone Compared to Pioglitazone: Three observational studies in elderly diabetic patients (age 65 years and older) found that rosiglitazone statistically significantly increased the risk of all-cause mortality compared to use of pioglitazone. One observational study in patients with a mean age of 54 years found no difference in all-cause mortality between patients treated with rosiglitazone compared to pioglitazone and reported similar results in the subpopulation of patients >65 years of age. One additional small, prospective, observational study found no statistically significant differences for CV mortality and all-cause mortality in patients treated with rosiglitazone compared to pioglitazone. Figure 1 5.3 Hypoglycemia AVANDARYL is a combination tablet containing rosiglitazone and glimepiride, a sulfonylurea. All sulfonylurea drugs are capable of producing severe hypoglycemia. Proper patient selection, dosage, and instructions are important to avoid hypoglycemic episodes. Elderly patients are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering drugs. Debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal, pituitary, renal, or hepatic insufficiency are particularly susceptible to the hypoglycemic action of glucose-lowering drugs. A starting dose of 1 mg glimepiride, as contained in AVANDARYL 4 mg/1 mg, followed by appropriate dose titration is recommended in these patients. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.3).] Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly and in people who are taking beta-adrenergic blocking drugs or other sympatholytic agents. Hypoglycemia is more likely to occur when caloric intake is deficient, after severe or prolonged exercise, when alcohol is ingested, or when more than one glucose-lowering drug is used. Patients receiving rosiglitazone in combination with a sulfonylurea may be at risk for hypoglycemia, and a reduction in the dose of the sulfonylurea may be necessary [see Dosage and Administration (2.2)]. 5.4 Edema AVANDARYL should be used with caution in patients with edema. In a clinical trial in healthy volunteers who received 8 mg of rosiglitazone once daily for 8 weeks, there was a statistically significant increase in median plasma volume compared with placebo. Since thiazolidinediones, including rosiglitazone, can cause fluid retention, which can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure, AVANDARYL should be used with caution in patients at risk for heart failure. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of heart failure [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Patient Counseling Information (17)]. In controlled clinical trials of patients with type 2 diabetes, mild to moderate edema was reported in patients treated with rosiglitazone, and may be dose-related. Patients with ongoing edema were more likely to have adverse events associated with edema if started on combination therapy with insulin and rosiglitazone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The use of AVANDARYL in combination with insulin is not recommended [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1, 5.2)]. 5.5 Weight Gain Dose-related weight gain was seen with AVANDARYL, rosiglitazone alone, and rosiglitazone together with other hypoglycemic agents (see Table 2). The mechanism of weight gain is unclear but probably involves a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation. Table 2. Weight Changes (kg) From Baseline at Endpoint During Clinical Trials [Median (25th, 75th Percentiles)] Monotherapy Duration Control Group Rosiglitazone 4 mg Rosiglitazone 8 mg 26 weeks Placebo -0.9 (-2.8, 0.9) N = 210 1.0 (-0.9, 3.6) N = 436 3.1 (1.1, 5.8) N = 439 52 weeks Sulfonylurea 2.0 (0, 4.0) N = 173 2.0 (-0.6, 4.0) N = 150 2.6 (0, 5.3) N = 157 Combination Therapy Rosiglitazone +Control Therapy Duration Control Group Rosiglitazone 4 mg Rosiglitazone 8 mg 24-26 weeks Sulfonylurea 0 (-1.0, 1.3) N = 1,155 2.2 (0.5, 4.0) N = 613 3.5 (1.4, 5.9) N = 841 26 weeks Metformin -1.4 (-3.2, 0.2) N = 175 0.8 (-1.0, 2.6) N = 100 2.1 (0, 4.3) N = 184 26 weeks Insulin 0.9 (-0.5, 2.7) N = 162 4.1 (1.4, 6.3) N = 164 5.4 (3.4, 7.3) N = 150 AVANDARYL in Patients With Inadequate Control on Diet and Exercise Duration Control Group AVANDARYL 4 mg/4 mg AVANDARYL 8 mg/4 mg 28 weeks Glimepiride 1.1 (-1.1, 3.2) N = 222 2.2 (0, 4.5) N = 221 2.9 (0, 5.8) N = 217 Rosiglitazone 0.9 (-1.4, 3.2) N = 228 In a 4- to 6-year, monotherapy, comparative trial (ADOPT) in patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes not previously treated with antidiabetic medication, the median weight change (25th, 75th percentiles) from baseline at 4 years was 3.5 kg (0.0, 8.1) for rosiglitazone, 2.0 kg (-1.0, 4.8) for glyburide, and -2.4 kg (-5.4, 0.5) for metformin. In postmarketing experience with rosiglitazone alone or in combination with other hypoglycemic agents, there have been rare reports of unusually rapid increases in weight and increases in excess of that generally observed in clinical trials. Patients who experience such increases should be assessed for fluid accumulation and volume-related events such as excessive edema and congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning]. 5.6 Hepatic Effects With sulfonylureas, including glimepiride, there may be an elevation of liver enzyme levels in rare cases. In isolated instances, impairment of liver function (e.g., with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis (which may also lead to liver failure) have been reported. Liver enzymes should be measured prior to the initiation of therapy with AVANDARYL in all patients and periodically thereafter per the clinical judgment of the healthcare professional. Therapy with AVANDARYL should not be initiated in patients with increased baseline liver enzyme levels (ALT >2.5X upper limit of normal). Patients with mildly elevated liver enzymes (ALT levels ≤2.5X upper limit of normal) at baseline or during therapy with AVANDARYL should be evaluated to determine the cause of the liver enzyme elevation. Initiation of, or continuation of, therapy with AVANDARYL in patients with mild liver enzyme elevations should proceed with caution and include close clinical follow-up, including more frequent liver enzyme monitoring, to determine if the liver enzyme elevations resolve or worsen. If at any time ALT levels increase to >3X the upper limit of normal in patients on therapy with AVANDARYL, liver enzyme levels should be rechecked as soon as possible. If ALT levels remain >3X the upper limit of normal, therapy with AVANDARYL should be discontinued. If any patient develops symptoms suggesting hepatic dysfunction, which may include unexplained nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fatigue, anorexia, and/or dark urine, liver enzymes should be checked. The decision whether to continue the patient on therapy with AVANDARYL should be guided by clinical judgment pending laboratory evaluations. If jaundice is observed, drug therapy should be discontinued. 5.7 Macular Edema Macular edema has been reported in postmarketing experience in some diabetic patients who were taking rosiglitazone or another thiazolidinedione. Some patients presented with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity, but some patients appear to have been diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination. Most patients had peripheral edema at the time macular edema was diagnosed. Some patients had improvement in their macular edema after discontinuation of their thiazolidinedione. Patients with diabetes should have regular eye exams by an ophthalmologist, per the Standards of Care of the American Diabetes Association. Additionally, any diabetic who reports any kind of visual symptom should be promptly referred to an ophthalmologist, regardless of the patient’s underlying medications or other physical findings. [See Adverse Reactions (6.3).] 5.8 Fractures Long-term trials (ADOPT and RECORD) show an increased incidence of bone fracture in patients, particularly female patients, taking rosiglitazone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. This increased incidence was noted after the first year of treatment and persisted during the course of the trial. The majority of the fractures in the women who received rosiglitazone occurred in the upper arm, hand, and foot. These sites of fracture are different from those usually associated with postmenopausal osteoporosis (e.g., hip or spine). Other trials suggest that this risk may also apply to men, although the risk of fracture among women appears higher than that among men. The risk of fracture should be considered in the care of patients treated with rosiglitazone, and attention given to assessing and maintaining bone health according to current standards of care. 5.9 Hypersensitivity Reactions There have been postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with glimepiride, including serious reactions such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. If a hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, promptly discontinue AVANDARYL, assess for other potential causes for the reaction, and institute alternative treatment for diabetes. 5.10 Hematologic Effects Decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit occurred in a dose-related fashion in adult patients treated with rosiglitazone [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The observed changes may be related to the increased plasma volume observed with treatment with rosiglitazone. 5.11 Hemolytic Anemia Sulfonylureas can cause hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Because glimepiride, a component of AVANDARYL, is a sulfonylurea, use caution in patients with G6PD deficiency and consider the use of a non-sulfonylurea alternative. There are also postmarketing reports of hemolytic anemia in patients receiving glimepiride who did not have known G6PD deficiency [see Adverse Reactions (6.3)]. 5.12 Increased Risk of Cardiovascular Mortality With Sulfonylureas The administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs has been reported to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality as compared to treatment with diet alone or diet plus insulin. This warning is based on the study conducted by the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP), a long-term, prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose-lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes. The study involved 823 patients who were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. UGDP reported that patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus a fixed dose of tolbutamide (1.5 grams per day) had a rate of cardiovascular mortality approximately 2½ times that of patients treated with diet alone. A significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but the use of tolbutamide was discontinued based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality, thus limiting the opportunity for the study to show an increase in overall mortality. Despite controversy regarding the interpretation of these results, the findings of the UGDP study provide an adequate basis for this warning. The patient should be informed of the potential risks and advantages of glimepiride and of alternative modes of therapy. Although only one drug in the sulfonylurea class (tolbutamide) was included in this study, it is prudent from a safety standpoint to consider that this warning may also apply to other oral hypoglycemic drugs in this class, in view of their close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure. 5.13 Diabetes and Blood Glucose Control When a patient stabilized on any antidiabetic regimen is exposed to stress such as fever, trauma, infection, or surgery, a temporary loss of glycemic control may occur. At such times, it may be necessary to withhold AVANDARYL and temporarily administer insulin. AVANDARYL may be reinstituted after the acute episode is resolved. Periodic fasting glucose and HbA1c measurements should be performed to monitor therapeutic response. 5.14 Ovulation Therapy with rosiglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women. As a result, these patients may be at an increased risk for pregnancy while taking rosiglitazone [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Thus, adequate contraception in premenopausal women should be recommended. This possible effect has not been specifically investigated in clinical trials; therefore the frequency of this occurrence is not known. Although hormonal imbalance has been seen in preclinical studies [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)], the clinical significance of this finding is not known. If unexpected menstrual dysfunction occurs, the benefits of continued therapy with AVANDARYL should be reviewed."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Rosiglitazone+AND+Maleate+AND+and+AND+Glimepiride&limit=1&skip=2
Page 2 of 5
        "generic_name": [
          "ROSIGLITAZONE MALEATE AND METFORMIN HYDROCHLORIDE"
        "brand_name": [
          "AVANDAMET"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS •Inhibitors of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) may increase rosiglitazone levels. (7.1) •Inducers of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may decrease rosiglitazone levels. (7.1) •Cationic drugs eliminated by renal tubular secretion; use with caution. (7.2) 7.1 Drugs Metabolized by Cytochrome P450 An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) may increase the AUC of rosiglitazone and an inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may decrease the AUC of rosiglitazone. Therefore, if an inhibitor or an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with rosiglitazone, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based upon clinical response. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.4).] 7.2 Cationic Drugs Although drug interactions for metformin with cationic drugs (e.g., amiloride, digoxin, morphine, procainamide, quinidine, quinine, ranitidine, triamterene, trimethoprim, and vancomycin) remain theoretical (except for cimetidine), careful patient monitoring and dose adjustment of AVANDAMET and/or the interfering drug is recommended in patients who are taking cationic medications that are excreted via the proximal renal tubular secretory system. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Clinical Pharmacology (12.4).] 7.3 Drugs That Produce Hyperglycemia When drugs that produce hyperglycemia, which may lead to loss of glycemic control, are administered to a patient receiving AVANDAMET, the patient should be closely observed to maintain adequate glycemic control. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.4).]"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail elsewhere in the labeling: •Lactic Acidosis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Cardiac Failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] •Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] •Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Weight Gain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Hepatic Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] •Macular Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] •Fractures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Hematologic Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.9)] •Vitamin B12 Levels [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] •Ovulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.12)] The most common adverse reactions (≥10%) include nausea/vomiting, diarrhea, headache, and dyspepsia. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Patients With Inadequate Glycemic Control on Diet and Exercise: Table 4 summarizes the incidence and types of adverse reactions without regard to causality reported in a controlled, 32‑week, double-blind clinical trial of AVANDAMET in patients with inadequate glycemic control on diet and exercise (N = 468). Table 4. Adverse Events (≥5% for AVANDAMET) Reported by Patients With Inadequate Glycemic Control on Diet and Exercise in a 32-Week, Double-blind Clinical Trial of AVANDAMET Preferred Term AVANDAMET Metformin Rosiglitazone N = 155 N = 154 N = 159 % % % Nausea/vomiting 16 13 8 Diarrhea 14 21 7 Headache 11 12 10 Dyspepsia 10 8 9 Upper respiratory tract infection 9 7 8 Dizziness 8 3 5 Edema 6 3 7 Nasopharyngitis 6 5 4 Abdominal pain 5 6 7 Arthralgia 5 3 7 Loose stools 5 6 1 Constipation 5 4 6 Mild (no intervention required) to moderate (minor intervention required) symptomatic hypoglycemia was reported by 12% (18/155) of patients treated with AVANDAMET, 14/154 (9%) with metformin, and 8% (13/159) with rosiglitazone. Approximately half of these episodes were accompanied by a simultaneous capillary glucose measurement, and the rate of confirmed hypoglycemia (blood glucose ≤50 mg/dL) was low in this clinical trial: 0.6% (1/155) for AVANDAMET, 1.3% (2/154) for metformin, and 0% with rosiglitazone. No hypoglycemic episode led to withdrawal in patients treated with AVANDAMET, and no patients required medical intervention due to hypoglycemia. The incidence of edema was 6% on AVANDAMET compared with 7% on rosiglitazone and 3% on metformin. The incidence of anemia was 4% in patients treated with AVANDAMET compared with either rosiglitazone (2%) or metformin (0%). Patients Inadequately Controlled on Rosiglitazone Monotherapy: The incidence and types of adverse events reported in controlled, 26-week clinical trials of rosiglitazone administered in combination with metformin 2,500 mg/day in comparison with adverse reactions reported in association with rosiglitazone and metformin monotherapies are shown in Table 5. Overall, the types of adverse reactions without regard to causality reported when rosiglitazone was used in combination with metformin were similar to those reported during monotherapy with rosiglitazone. Table 5. Adverse Events (≥5% for Rosiglitazone Plus Metformin) Reported by Patients in 26-Week, Double-blind Clinical Trials of Rosiglitazone Added to Metformin Therapy Preferred Term Rosiglitazone + Metformin Rosiglitazone Placebo Metformin N = 338 N = 2,526 N = 601 N = 225 % % % % Upper respiratory tract infection 16.0 9.9 8.7 8.9 Diarrhea 12.7 2.3 3.3 15.6 Injury 8.0 7.6 4.3 7.6 Anemia 7.1 1.9 0.7 2.2 Headache 6.5 5.9 5.0 8.9 Sinusitis 6.2 3.2 4.5 5.3 Fatigue 5.9 3.6 5.0 4.0 Back pain 5.0 4.0 3.8 4.0 Viral infection 5.0 3.2 4.0 3.6 Arthralgia 5.0 3.0 4.0 2.2 Reports of hypoglycemia in patients treated with rosiglitazone added to maximum metformin therapy in double-blind trials were more frequent (3.0%) than in patients treated with rosiglitazone (0.6%) or metformin monotherapies (1.3%) or placebo (0.2%). Overall, anemia and edema were generally mild to moderate in severity and usually did not require discontinuation of treatment with rosiglitazone. Edema was reported in 4.8% of patients receiving rosiglitazone compared with 1.3% on placebo, and 2.2% on metformin monotherapy and 4.4% on rosiglitazone in combination with maximum doses of metformin. Reports of anemia (7.1%) were greater in patients treated with rosiglitazone added to metformin compared with monotherapy with rosiglitazone. Lower pre-treatment hemoglobin/hematocrit levels in patients enrolled in the metformin and rosiglitazone combination therapy clinical trials may have contributed to the higher reporting rate of anemia in these trials [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. Combination With Insulin: The incidence of hypoglycemia (confirmed by fingerstick blood glucose concentration ≤50 mg/dL) was 14% for patients on AVANDAMET plus insulin compared with 10% for patients on insulin monotherapy. The incidence of edema was 7% when insulin was added to AVANDAMET compared with 3% with insulin monotherapy. This trial excluded patients with pre-existing heart failure or new or worsening edema on AVANDAMET. However, in 26-week, double-blind, fixed-dose trials of rosiglitazone added to insulin, edema was reported with higher frequency (rosiglitazone in combination with insulin, 14.7%; insulin, 5.4%) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. In trials in which rosiglitazone was added to insulin, rosiglitazone increased the risk of congestive heart failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. In a trial in which insulin was added to AVANDAMET, no myocardial ischemia was observed in the insulin group (N = 158), and no congestive heart failure was reported in either group. There was one myocardial ischemic event and one sudden death in the group receiving AVANDAMET plus insulin (N = 161). [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2).] The incidence of anemia was 2% for AVANDAMET in combination with insulin compared with 1% for insulin monotherapy. Long-term Trial of Rosiglitazone as Monotherapy: A long-term, 4- to 6-year trial (ADOPT) compared the use of rosiglitazone (n = 1,456), glyburide (n = 1,441), and metformin (n = 1,454) as monotherapy in patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes who were not previously treated with antidiabetic medication. Table 6 presents adverse reactions without regard to causality; rates are expressed per 100 patient-years (PY) exposure to account for the differences in exposure to trial medication across the 3 treatment groups. In ADOPT, fractures were reported in a greater number of women treated with rosiglitazone (9.3%, 2.7/100 patient-years) compared with glyburide (3.5%, 1.3/100 patient-years) or metformin (5.1%, 1.5/100 patient-years). The majority of the fractures in the women who received rosiglitazone were reported in the upper arm, hand, and foot. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.8).] The observed incidence of fractures for male patients was similar among the 3 treatment groups. Table 6. On-therapy Adverse Events [≥5 Events/100 Patient-years (PY)] in any Treatment Group Reported in a 4- to 6-Year Clinical Trial of Rosiglitazone as Monotherapy (ADOPT) Preferred Term Rosiglitazone Glyburide Metformin N = 1,456 N = 1,441 N = 1,454 PY = 4,954 PY = 4,244 PY = 4,906 Nasopharyngitis 6.3 6.9 6.6 Back pain 5.1 4.9 5.3 Arthralgia 5.0 4.8 4.2 Hypertension 4.4 6.0 6.1 Upper respiratory tract infection 4.3 5.0 4.7 Hypoglycemia 2.9 13.0 3.4 Diarrhea 2.5 3.2 6.8 Long-term Trial of Rosiglitazone as Combination Therapy (RECORD): RECORD (Rosiglitazone Evaluated for Cardiac Outcomes and Regulation of Glycemia in Diabetes) was a multicenter, randomized, open-label, non-inferiority trial in subjects with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on maximum doses of metformin or sulfonylurea (glyburide, gliclazide, or glimepiride) to compare the time to reach the combined cardiovascular endpoint of cardiovascular death or cardiovascular hospitalization between patients randomized to the addition of rosiglitazone versus metformin or sulfonylurea. The trial included patients who have failed metformin or sulfonylurea monotherapy; those who failed metformin (n = 2,222) were randomized to receive either add-on rosiglitazone (n = 1,117) or add-on sulfonylurea (n = 1,105), and those who failed sulfonylurea (n = 2,225) were randomized to receive either add-on rosiglitazone (n = 1,103) or add-on metformin (n = 1,122). Patients were treated to target HbA1c ≤7% throughout the trial. The mean age of patients in this trial was 58 years, 52% were male, and the mean duration of follow-up was 5.5 years. Rosiglitazone demonstrated non-inferiority to active control for the primary endpoint of cardiovascular hospitalization or cardiovascular death (HR 0.99, 95% CI: 0.85-1.16). There were no significant differences between groups for secondary endpoints with the exception of congestive heart failure (see Table 7). The incidence of congestive heart failure was significantly greater among patients randomized to rosiglitazone. Table 7. Cardiovascular (CV) Outcomes for the RECORD Trial Primary Endpoint Rosiglitazone N = 2,220 Active Control N = 2,227 Hazard Ratio 95% CI CV death or CV hospitalization 321 323 0.99 0.85-1.16 Secondary Endpoint All-cause death 136 157 0.86 0.68-1.08 CV death 60 71 0.84 0.59-1.18 Myocardial infarction 64 56 1.14 0.80-1.63 Stroke 46 63 0.72 0.49-1.06 CV death, myocardial infarction, or stroke 154 165 0.93 0.74-1.15 Heart failure 61 29 2.10 1.35-3.27 There was an increased incidence of bone fracture for subjects randomized to rosiglitazone in addition to metformin or sulfonylurea compared with those randomized to metformin plus sulfonylurea (8.3% versus 5.3%) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)]. The majority of fractures were reported in the upper limbs and distal lower limbs. The risk of fracture appeared to be higher in females relative to control (11.5% versus 6.3%), than in males relative to control (5.3% versus 4.3%). Additional data are necessary to determine whether there is an increased risk of fracture in males after a longer period of follow-up. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Hematologic: Decreases in mean hemoglobin and hematocrit occurred in a dose-related fashion in adult patients treated with rosiglitazone (mean decreases in individual trials as much as 1.0 gram/dL hemoglobin and as much as 3.3% hematocrit). The changes occurred primarily during the first 3 months following initiation of rosiglitazone therapy or following an increase in rosiglitazone dose. The time course and magnitude of decreases were similar in patients treated with a combination of rosiglitazone and other hypoglycemic agents or monotherapy with rosiglitazone. Pre-treatment levels of hemoglobin and hematocrit were lower in patients in metformin combination trials and may have contributed to the higher reporting rate of anemia. In a single trial in pediatric patients, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of 0.29 g/dL and 0.95%, respectively) were reported with rosiglitazone. White blood cell counts also decreased slightly in adult patients treated with rosiglitazone. Decreases in hematologic parameters may be related to increased plasma volume observed with rosiglitazone treatment. In controlled clinical trials of metformin of 29 weeks’ duration, a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels, without clinical manifestations, was observed in approximately 7% of patients. Such a decrease, possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12-intrinsic factor complex, is, however, very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation. Lipids: Changes in serum lipids have been observed following treatment with rosiglitazone in adults [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Serum Transaminase Levels: In pre-approval clinical trials in 4,598 patients treated with rosiglitazone encompassing approximately 3,600 patient-years of exposure, and in a long-term 4- to 6-year trial in 1,456 patients treated with rosiglitazone (4,954 patient-years exposure), there was no evidence of drug-induced hepatotoxicity. In pre-approval controlled trials, 0.2% of patients treated with rosiglitazone had reversible elevations in ALT >3X the upper limit of normal compared with 0.2% on placebo and 0.5% on active comparators. The ALT elevations in patients treated with rosiglitazone were reversible. Hyperbilirubinemia was found in 0.3% of patients treated with rosiglitazone compared with 0.9% treated with placebo and 1% in patients treated with active comparators. In pre-approval clinical trials, there were no cases of idiosyncratic drug reactions leading to hepatic failure. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6).] In the 4- to 6-year ADOPT trial, patients treated with rosiglitazone (4,954 patient-years exposure), glyburide (4,244 patient-years exposure), or metformin (4,906 patient-years exposure) as monotherapy, had the same rate of ALT increase to >3X upper limit of normal (0.3 per 100 patient-years exposure). In the RECORD trial, patients randomized to rosiglitazone in addition to metformin or sulfonylurea (10,849 patient-years exposure) and to metformin plus sulfonylurea (10,209 patient-years exposure) had a rate of ALT increase to ≥3X upper limit of normal of approximately 0.2 and 0.3 per 100 patient-years exposure, respectively. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the events described below have been identified during post-approval use of AVANDAMET or its individual components. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to always establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. In patients receiving thiazolidinedione therapy, serious adverse events with or without a fatal outcome, potentially related to volume expansion (e.g., congestive heart failure, pulmonary edema, and pleural effusions) have been reported [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. There are postmarketing reports with rosiglitazone of hepatitis, hepatic enzyme elevations to 3 or more times the upper limit of normal, and hepatic failure with and without fatal outcome, although causality has not been established. There are postmarketing reports with rosiglitazone of rash, pruritus, urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactic reaction, Stevens-Johnson syndrome [see Contraindications (4)], and new onset or worsening diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. (See also GLUCOPHAGE® prescribing information.)"
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Fluid retention, which may exacerbate or lead to heart failure, may occur. Combination use with insulin and use in congestive heart failure NYHA Class I and II may increase risk of other cardiovascular effects. (5.2) •Meta-analysis of 52 mostly short-term trials suggested a potential risk of ischemic cardiovascular (CV) events relative to placebo, not confirmed in a long-term CV outcome trial versus metformin or sulfonylurea. (5.3) •Assess renal function before starting therapy and at least annually. (5.1) •Avoid use in patients with evidence of hepatic disease. (2.4, 5.1) •Warn patients against excessive alcohol intake. (5.1) •Promptly evaluate patients who develop laboratory abnormalities or clinical illness for evidence of ketoacidosis or lactic acidosis. (5.1) •Dose-related edema (5.4), weight gain (5.5), and anemia (5.9) may occur. •Macular edema has been reported. (5.7) •Increased incidence of bone fracture. (5.8) •Measure hematologic parameters annually. (5.9) 5.1 Lactic Acidosis Incidence and Management: Lactic acidosis is a rare, but serious, metabolic complication that can occur due to metformin accumulation during treatment with AVANDAMET; when it occurs, it is fatal in approximately 50% of cases. Lactic acidosis may also occur in association with a number of pathophysiologic conditions, including diabetes mellitus, and whenever there is significant tissue hypoperfusion and hypoxemia. Lactic acidosis is characterized by elevated blood lactate levels (>5 mmol/L), decreased blood pH, electrolyte disturbances with an increased anion gap, and an increased lactate/pyruvate ratio. When metformin is implicated as the cause of lactic acidosis, metformin plasma levels >5 mcg/mL are generally found. The reported incidence of lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin is very low (approximately 0.03 cases/1,000 patient-years of exposure, with approximately 0.015 fatal cases/1,000 patient-years of exposure). Reported cases have occurred primarily in diabetic patients with significant renal insufficiency, including both intrinsic renal disease and renal hypoperfusion, often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical/surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications. Patients with congestive heart failure requiring pharmacologic management, in particular those with unstable or acute congestive heart failure who are at risk of hypoperfusion and hypoxemia, are at increased risk of lactic acidosis. The risk of lactic acidosis increases with the degree of renal dysfunction and the patient's age. The risk of lactic acidosis may, therefore, be significantly decreased by regular monitoring of renal function in patients taking AVANDAMET and by use of the minimum effective dose of AVANDAMET. In particular, treatment of the elderly should be accompanied by careful monitoring of renal function. Treatment with AVANDAMET should not be initiated in patients ≥80 years of age unless measurement of creatinine clearance demonstrates that renal function is not reduced, as these patients are more susceptible to developing lactic acidosis. In addition, AVANDAMET should be promptly withheld in the presence of any condition associated with hypoxemia, dehydration, or sepsis. Because impaired hepatic function may significantly limit the ability to clear lactate, AVANDAMET should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease. Patients should be cautioned against excessive alcohol intake, either acute or chronic, when taking AVANDAMET, since alcohol potentiates the effects of metformin on lactate metabolism. In addition, AVANDAMET should be temporarily discontinued prior to any intravascular radiocontrast study and for any surgical procedure. The onset of lactic acidosis often is subtle, and accompanied only by nonspecific symptoms such as malaise, myalgias, respiratory distress, increasing somnolence, and nonspecific abdominal distress. There may be associated hypothermia, hypotension, and resistant bradyarrhythmias with more marked acidosis. The patient and the patient's physician must be aware of the possible importance of such symptoms and the patient should be instructed to notify the physician immediately if they occur. AVANDAMET should be withdrawn until the situation is clarified. Serum electrolytes, ketones, blood glucose, and, if indicated, blood pH, lactate levels, and even blood metformin levels may be useful. Once a patient is stabilized on any dose level of AVANDAMET, gastrointestinal symptoms, which are common during initiation of therapy, are unlikely to be drug related. Later occurrence of gastrointestinal symptoms could be due to lactic acidosis or other serious disease. Levels of fasting venous plasma lactate above the upper limit of normal but less than 5 mmol/L in patients taking AVANDAMET do not necessarily indicate impending lactic acidosis and may be explainable by other mechanisms, such as poorly controlled diabetes or obesity, vigorous physical activity, or technical problems in sample handling. Lactic acidosis should be suspected in any diabetic patient with metabolic acidosis lacking evidence of ketoacidosis (ketonuria and ketonemia). Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency that must be treated in a hospital setting. In a patient with lactic acidosis who is taking AVANDAMET, the drug should be discontinued immediately and general supportive measures promptly instituted. Because metformin is dialyzable (with a clearance of up to 170 mL/min under good hemodynamic conditions), prompt hemodialysis is recommended to correct the acidosis and remove the accumulated metformin. Such management often results in prompt reversal of symptoms and recovery [see Contraindications (4)]. Factors That May Predispose Patients to Lactic Acidosis: Assessment of Renal Function: Metformin is known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of metformin accumulation and lactic acidosis increases with the degree of impairment of renal function. Thus, patients with serum creatinine levels above the upper limit of normal for their age should not receive AVANDAMET. In patients with advanced age, AVANDAMET should be carefully titrated to establish the minimum dose for adequate glycemic effect, because aging is associated with reduced renal function. [See Dosage and Administration (2.4), Use in Specific Populations (8.5).] Before initiation of therapy with AVANDAMET and at least annually thereafter, renal function should be assessed and verified as normal. In patients in whom development of renal dysfunction is anticipated, renal function should be assessed more frequently and AVANDAMET discontinued if evidence of renal impairment is present. Medications That Affect Renal Function: Concomitant medication(s) that may affect renal function or result in significant hemodynamic change or may interfere with the disposition of metformin, such as cationic drugs that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion [see Drug Interactions (7.2), Clinical Pharmacology (12.4)], should be used with caution. Hypoxic States: Cardiovascular collapse (shock) from whatever cause, acute congestive heart failure, acute myocardial infarction, and other conditions characterized by hypoxemia have been associated with lactic acidosis and may also cause prerenal azotemia. When such events occur in patients receiving AVANDAMET, the drug should be promptly discontinued. Radiologic Studies With Intravascular Iodinated Contrast Materials: Intravascular contrast studies with iodinated materials can lead to acute alteration of renal function and have been associated with lactic acidosis in patients receiving metformin [see Contraindications (4)]. Therefore, in patients in whom any such study is planned, AVANDAMET should be temporarily discontinued at the time of or prior to the procedure, and withheld for 48 hours subsequent to the procedure and reinstituted only after renal function has been re-evaluated and found to be normal. Surgical Procedures: Use of AVANDAMET should be temporarily suspended for any surgical procedure (except minor procedures not associated with restricted intake of food and fluids) and should not be restarted until the patient's oral intake has resumed and renal function has been evaluated as normal. Alcohol Intake: Alcohol potentiates the effect of metformin on lactate metabolism. Patients, therefore, should be warned against excessive alcohol intake, acute or chronic, while receiving AVANDAMET. Change in Clinical Status of Patients With Previously Controlled Diabetes: A patient with type 2 diabetes previously well-controlled on AVANDAMET who develops laboratory abnormalities or clinical illness (especially vague and poorly defined illness) should be evaluated promptly for evidence of ketoacidosis or lactic acidosis. Evaluation should include serum electrolytes and ketones, blood glucose, and, if indicated, blood pH, lactate, pyruvate, and metformin levels. If acidosis of either form occurs, AVANDAMET must be stopped immediately and other appropriate corrective measures initiated. [See also Warnings and Precautions (5.6).] 5.2 Cardiac Failure Rosiglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, alone or in combination with other antidiabetic agents, can cause fluid retention, which may exacerbate or lead to heart failure. Patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure. If these signs and symptoms develop, the heart failure should be managed according to current standards of care. Furthermore, discontinuation or dose reduction of rosiglitazone must be considered [see Boxed Warning]. Patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) NYHA Class I and II treated with rosiglitazone have an increased risk of cardiovascular events. A 52-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, echocardiographic trial was conducted in 224 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and NYHA Class I or II CHF (ejection fraction ≤45%) on background antidiabetic and CHF therapy. An independent committee conducted a blinded evaluation of fluid-related events (including congestive heart failure) and cardiovascular hospitalizations according to predefined criteria (adjudication). Separate from the adjudication, other cardiovascular adverse events were reported by investigators. Although no treatment difference in change from baseline of ejection fractions was observed, more cardiovascular adverse events were observed with rosiglitazone treatment compared with placebo during the 52-week trial. (See Table 2.) Table 2. Emergent Cardiovascular Adverse Events in Patients With Congestive Heart Failure (NYHA Class I and II) Treated With Rosiglitazone or Placebo (in Addition to Background Antidiabetic and CHF Therapy) Events Rosiglitazone Placebo N = 110 n (%) N = 114 n (%) Adjudicated Cardiovascular deaths 5 (5%) 4 (4%) CHF worsening 7 (6%) 4 (4%) – with overnight hospitalization 5 (5%) 4 (4%) – without overnight hospitalization 2 (2%) 0 (0%) New or worsening edema 28 (25%) 10 (9%) New or worsening dyspnea 29 (26%) 19 (17%) Increases in CHF medication 36 (33%) 20 (18%) Cardiovascular hospitalizationa 21 (19%) 15 (13%) Investigator-reported, non-adjudicated Ischemic adverse events 10 (9%) 5 (4%) – Myocardial infarction 5 (5%) 2 (2%) – Angina 6 (5%) 3 (3%) a Includes hospitalization for any cardiovascular reason. In a long-term, cardiovascular outcome trial (RECORD) in patients with type 2 diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)], the incidence of heart failure was higher in patients treated with rosiglitazone [2.7% (61/2,220) compared with active control 1.3% (29/2,227), HR 2.10 (95% CI: 1.35, 3.27)]. Initiation of AVANDAMET in patients with established NYHA Class III or IV heart failure is contraindicated. AVANDAMET is not recommended in patients with symptomatic heart failure. [See Boxed Warning.] Patients experiencing acute coronary syndromes have not been studied in controlled clinical trials. In view of the potential for development of heart failure in patients having an acute coronary event, initiation of AVANDAMET is not recommended for patients experiencing an acute coronary event, and discontinuation of AVANDAMET during this acute phase should be considered. Patients with NYHA Class III and IV cardiac status (with or without CHF) have not been studied in controlled clinical trials. AVANDAMET is not recommended in patients with NYHA Class III and IV cardiac status. Congestive Heart Failure During Coadministration of Rosiglitazone With Insulin: In trials in which rosiglitazone was added to insulin, rosiglitazone increased the risk of congestive heart failure. Coadministration of rosiglitazone and insulin is not recommended. [See Indications and Usage (1), Warnings and Precautions (5.3).] In 7 controlled, randomized, double-blind trials which had durations from 16 to 26 weeks and which were included in a meta-analysis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)], patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were randomized to coadministration of rosiglitazone and insulin (N = 1,018) or insulin (N = 815). In these 7 trials, rosiglitazone was added to insulin. These trials included patients with long-standing diabetes (median duration of 12 years) and a high prevalence of pre-existing medical conditions, including peripheral neuropathy, retinopathy, ischemic heart disease, vascular disease, and congestive heart failure. The total number of patients with emergent congestive heart failure was 23 (2.3%) and 8 (1.0%) in the rosiglitazone plus insulin and insulin groups, respectively. Heart Failure in Observational Studies of Elderly Diabetic Patients Comparing Rosiglitazone to Pioglitazone: Three observational studies in elderly diabetic patients (age 65 years and older) found that rosiglitazone statistically significantly increased the risk of hospitalized heart failure compared to use of pioglitazone. One other observational study in patients with a mean age of 54 years, which also included an analysis in a subpopulation of patients >65 years of age, found no statistically significant increase in emergency department visits or hospitalization for heart failure in patients treated with rosiglitazone compared to pioglitazone in the older subgroup. 5.3 Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events Data from long-term, prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trials of rosiglitazone versus metformin or sulfonylureas, particularly a cardiovascular outcome trial (RECORD), observed no difference in overall mortality or in major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and its components. A meta-analysis of mostly short-term trials suggested an increased risk for myocardial infarction with rosiglitazone compared with placebo. Cardiovascular Events in Large, Long-term, Prospective, Randomized, Controlled Trials of Rosiglitazone: RECORD, a prospectively designed cardiovascular outcome trial (mean follow-up 5.5 years; 4,447 patients), compared the addition of rosiglitazone to metformin or a sulfonylurea (N = 2,220) with a control group of metformin plus sulfonylurea (N = 2,227) in patients with type 2 diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Non-inferiority was demonstrated for the primary endpoint, cardiovascular hospitalization or cardiovascular death, for rosiglitazone compared with control [HR 0.99 (95% CI: 0.85, 1.16)] demonstrating no overall increased risk in cardiovascular morbidity or mortality. The hazard ratios for total mortality and MACE were consistent with the primary endpoint and the 95% CI similarly excluded a 20% increase in risk for rosiglitazone. The hazard ratios for the components of MACE were 0.72 (95% CI: 0.49, 1.06) for stroke, 1.14 (95% CI: 0.80, 1.63) for myocardial infarction, and 0.84 (95% CI: 0.59, 1.18) for cardiovascular death. The results of RECORD are consistent with the findings of 2 earlier long-term, prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trials (each trial >3 years’ duration; total of 9,620 patients) (see Figure 1). In patients with impaired glucose tolerance (DREAM trial), although the incidence of cardiovascular events was higher among subjects who were randomized to rosiglitazone in combination with ramipril than among subjects randomized to ramipril alone, no statistically significant differences were observed for MACE and its components between rosiglitazone and placebo. In type 2 diabetes patients who were initiating oral agent monotherapy (ADOPT trial), no statistically significant differences were observed for MACE and its components between rosiglitazone and metformin or a sulfonylurea. Figure 1. Hazard Ratios for the Risk of MACE, Myocardial Infarction, and Total Mortality With Rosiglitazone Compared With a Control Group in Long-term Trials Cardiovascular Events in a Group of 52 Clinical Trials: In a meta-analysis of 52 double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trials designed to assess glucose-lowering efficacy in type 2 diabetes (mean duration 6 months), a statistically significant increased risk of myocardial infarction with rosiglitazone versus pooled comparators was observed [0.4% versus 0.3%; OR 1.8, (95% CI: 1.03, 3.25)]. A statistically non-significant increased risk of MACE was observed with rosiglitazone versus pooled comparators (OR 1.44, 95% CI: 0.95, 2.20). In the placebo-controlled trials, a statistically significant increased risk of myocardial infarction [0.4% versus 0.2%, OR 2.23 (95% CI: 1.14, 4.64)] and statistically non-significant increased risk of MACE [0.7% versus 0.5%, OR 1.53 (95% CI: 0.94, 2.54)] with rosiglitazone were observed. In the active-controlled trials, there was no increased risk of myocardial infarction or MACE. Mortality in Observational Studies of Rosiglitazone Compared to Pioglitazone: Three observational studies in elderly diabetic patients (age 65 years and older) found that rosiglitazone statistically significantly increased the risk of all-cause mortality compared to use of pioglitazone. One observational study in patients with a mean age of 54 years found no difference in all-cause mortality between patients treated with rosiglitazone compared to pioglitazone and reported similar results in the subpopulation of patients >65 years of age. One additional small, prospective, observational study found no statistically significant differences for CV mortality and all-cause mortality in patients treated with rosiglitazone compared to pioglitazone. figure 1 5.4 Edema AVANDAMET should be used with caution in patients with edema. In a clinical trial in healthy volunteers who received rosiglitazone 8 mg once daily for 8 weeks, there was a statistically significant increase in median plasma volume compared with placebo. Since thiazolidinediones, including rosiglitazone, can cause fluid retention, which can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure, AVANDAMET should be used with caution in patients at risk for heart failure. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of heart failure [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.2), Patient Counseling Information (17.1)]. In controlled clinical trials of patients with type 2 diabetes, mild to moderate edema was reported in patients treated with rosiglitazone, and may be dose-related. Patients with ongoing edema were more likely to have adverse events associated with edema if started on combination therapy with insulin and rosiglitazone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. The use of AVANDAMET in combination with insulin is not recommended. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.2, 5.3).] 5.5 Weight Gain Dose-related weight gain was seen with rosiglitazone alone and rosiglitazone together with other hypoglycemic agents (see Table 3). No overall change in median weight was observed with AVANDAMET in drug-naïve patients. The mechanism of weight gain with rosiglitazone is unclear but probably involves a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation. Table 3. Weight Changes (kg) From Baseline at Endpoint During Clinical Trials [Median (25th, 75th Percentiles)] Monotherapy Duration Control Group Rosiglitazone 4 mg Rosiglitazone 8 mg 26 weeks Placebo -0.9 (-2.8, 0.9) N = 210 1.0 (0.9, 3.6) N = 436 3.1 (1.1, 5.8) N = 439 52 weeks Sulfonylurea 2.0 (0, 4.0) N = 173 2.0 (-0.6, 4.0) N = 150 2.6 (0, 5.3) N = 157 Combination Therapy Duration Rosiglitazone + Control Therapy Control Group Rosiglitazone 4 mg Rosiglitazone 8 mg 24-26 weeks Sulfonylurea 0 (-1.0, 1.3) N = 1,155 2.2 (0.5, 4.0) N = 613 3.5 (1.4, 5.9) N = 841 26 weeks Metformin -1.4 (-3.2, 0.2) N = 175 0.8 (-1.0, 2.6) N = 100 2.1 (0, 4.3) N = 184 26 weeks Insulin 0.9 (-0.5, 2.7) N = 162 4.1 (1.4, 6.3) N = 164 5.4 (3.4, 7.3) N = 150 AVANDAMET in Patients With Inadequate Control on Diet and Exercise Duration Control Group AVANDAMET 32 weeks Metformin -2.2 (-5.5, -0.5) N = 123 0.05 kg (-3.45, 3.0) Rosiglitazone 1.7 (-1.2, 4.5) N = 136 N = 136 AVANDAMET + Insulin Duration Control Group AVANDAMET + Insulin 24 weeks Insulin 2.6 kg (0.3, 4.8) N = 145 3.3 kg (1.5, 6.0) N = 147 In a 4- to 6-year, monotherapy, comparative trial (ADOPT) in patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes not previously treated with antidiabetic medication, the median weight change (25th, 75th percentiles) from baseline at 4 years was 3.5 kg (0.0, 8.1) for rosiglitazone, 2.0 kg (-1.0, 4.8) for glyburide, and -2.4 kg (-5.4, 0.5) for metformin. In postmarketing experience with rosiglitazone alone or in combination with other hypoglycemic agents, there have been rare reports of unusually rapid increases in weight and increases in excess of that generally observed in clinical trials. Patients who experience such increases should be assessed for fluid accumulation and volume-related events such as excessive edema and congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning]. 5.6 Hepatic Effects Metformin: Since impaired hepatic function has been associated with some cases of lactic acidosis, AVANDAMET should generally be avoided in patients with clinical or laboratory evidence of hepatic disease. Rosiglitazone: Liver enzymes should be measured prior to the initiation of therapy with AVANDAMET in all patients and periodically thereafter per the clinical judgment of the healthcare professional. Therapy with AVANDAMET should not be initiated in patients with increased baseline liver enzyme levels (ALT >2.5X upper limit of normal). Patients with mildly elevated liver enzymes (ALT levels ≤2.5X upper limit of normal) at baseline or during therapy with AVANDAMET should be evaluated to determine the cause of the liver enzyme elevation. Initiation of, or continuation of, therapy with AVANDAMET in patients with mild liver enzyme elevations should proceed with caution and include close clinical follow-up, including more frequent liver enzyme monitoring, to determine if the liver enzyme elevations resolve or worsen. If at any time ALT levels increase to >3X the upper limit of normal in patients on therapy with AVANDAMET, liver enzyme levels should be rechecked as soon as possible. If ALT levels remain >3X the upper limit of normal, therapy with AVANDAMET should be discontinued. If any patient develops symptoms suggesting hepatic dysfunction, which may include unexplained nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fatigue, anorexia, and/or dark urine, liver enzymes should be checked. The decision whether to continue the patient on therapy with AVANDAMET should be guided by clinical judgment pending laboratory evaluations. If jaundice is observed, drug therapy should be discontinued. In addition, if the presence of hepatic disease or hepatic dysfunction of sufficient magnitude to predispose to lactic acidosis is confirmed, therapy with AVANDAMET should be discontinued. 5.7 Macular Edema Macular edema has been reported in postmarketing experience in some diabetic patients who were taking rosiglitazone or another thiazolidinedione. Some patients presented with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity, but some patients appear to have been diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination. Most patients had peripheral edema at the time macular edema was diagnosed. Some patients had improvement in their macular edema after discontinuation of their thiazolidinedione. Patients with diabetes should have regular eye exams by an ophthalmologist, per the Standards of Care of the American Diabetes Association. Additionally, any diabetic who reports any kind of visual symptom should be promptly referred to an ophthalmologist, regardless of the patient’s underlying medications or other physical findings. [See Adverse Reactions (6.3).] 5.8 Fractures Long-term trials (ADOPT and RECORD) show an increased incidence of bone fracture in patients, particularly female patients, taking rosiglitazone [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. This increased incidence was noted after the first year of treatment and persisted during the course of the trial. The majority of the fractures in the women who received rosiglitazone occurred in the upper arm, hand, and foot. These sites of fracture are different from those usually associated with postmenopausal osteoporosis (e.g., hip or spine). Other trials suggest that this risk may also apply to men, although the risk of fracture among women appears higher than that among men. The risk of fracture should be considered in the care of patients treated with rosiglitazone, and attention given to assessing and maintaining bone health according to current standards of care. 5.9 Hematologic Effects Decreases in mean hemoglobin and hematocrit occurred in a dose-related fashion in adult patients treated with rosiglitazone [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The observed changes may be related to the increased plasma volume observed with treatment with rosiglitazone and may be dose-related. The decrease in hemoglobin was seen more frequently in combination rosiglitazone and metformin therapy than in rosiglitazone therapy alone. Vitamin B12 deficiency may contribute to the observed reductions in hemoglobin [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)]. Initial and periodic monitoring of hematologic parameters (e.g., hemoglobin/hematocrit and red blood cell indices) should be performed, at least on an annual basis. 5.10 Vitamin B12 Levels In controlled clinical trials of metformin of 29 weeks’ duration, a decrease to subnormal levels of previously normal serum vitamin B12 levels, without clinical manifestations, was observed in approximately 7% of patients. Such decrease, possibly due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12-intrinsic factor complex, is, however, very rarely associated with anemia and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation. Certain individuals (those with inadequate vitamin B12 or calcium intake or absorption) appear to be predisposed to developing subnormal vitamin B12 levels. In these patients, routine serum vitamin B12 measurements at 2- to 3-year intervals may be useful. Vitamin B12 deficiency should be excluded if megaloblastic anemia is suspected. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9).] 5.11 Diabetes and Blood Glucose Control Periodic fasting blood glucose and HbA1c measurements should be performed to monitor therapeutic response. When a patient stabilized on any diabetic regimen is exposed to stress such as fever, trauma, infection, or surgery, a temporary loss of glycemic control may occur. At such times, it may be necessary to withhold AVANDAMET and temporarily administer insulin. AVANDAMET may be reinstituted after the acute episode is resolved. Hypoglycemia does not occur in patients receiving metformin alone under usual circumstances of use but could occur when caloric intake is deficient, when strenuous exercise is not compensated by caloric supplementation, or during concomitant use with hypoglycemic agents (such as sulfonylureas or insulin) or ethanol. Elderly, debilitated or malnourished patients, and those with adrenal or pituitary insufficiency or alcohol intoxication are particularly susceptible to hypoglycemic effects. Hypoglycemia may be difficult to recognize in the elderly and in people who are taking β-adrenergic blocking drugs. Patients receiving rosiglitazone in combination with other hypoglycemic agents may be at risk for hypoglycemia, and a reduction in the dose of the concomitant agent may be necessary. 5.12 Ovulation Therapy with rosiglitazone, like other thiazolidinediones, may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women. As a result, these patients may be at an increased risk for pregnancy while taking AVANDAMET [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Thus, adequate contraception in premenopausal women should be recommended. This possible effect has not been specifically investigated in clinical trials; therefore, the frequency of this occurrence is not known. Although hormonal imbalance has been seen in preclinical studies [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)], the clinical significance of this finding is not known. If unexpected menstrual dysfunction occurs, the benefits of continued therapy with AVANDAMET should be reviewed."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Rosiglitazone+AND+Maleate+AND+and+AND+Glimepiride&limit=1&skip=3
Page 3 of 5
        "generic_name": [
          "ROSIGLITAZONE MALEATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "AVANDIA"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Inhibitors of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) may increase rosiglitazone levels; inducers of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may decrease rosiglitazone levels. (7.1) 7.1 CYP2C8 Inhibitors and Inducers An inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) may increase the AUC of rosiglitazone and an inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may decrease the AUC of rosiglitazone. Therefore, if an inhibitor or an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with rosiglitazone, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based upon clinical response. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.4).]"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in more detail elsewhere in the labeling: •Cardiac Failure [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] •Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)] •Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] •Weight Gain [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] •Hepatic Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.5)] •Macular Edema [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)] •Fractures [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)] •Hematologic Effects [see Warnings and Precautions (5.8)] •Ovulation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.10)] Common adverse reactions (>5%) reported in clinical trials without regard to causality were upper respiratory tract infection, injury, and headache. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared with rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. Adult: In clinical trials, approximately 9,900 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with AVANDIA. Short-term Trials of AVANDIA as Monotherapy and in Combination With Other Hypoglycemic Agents: The incidence and types of adverse events reported in short-term clinical trials of AVANDIA as monotherapy are shown in Table 3. Table 3. Adverse Events (≥5% in any Treatment Group) Reported by Patients in Short-terma Double-blind Clinical Trials With AVANDIA as Monotherapy Preferred Term AVANDIA Monotherapy Placebo Metformin Sulfonylureasb N = 2,526 N = 601 N = 225 N = 626 % % % % Upper respiratory tract infection 9.9 8.7 8.9 7.3 Injury 7.6 4.3 7.6 6.1 Headache 5.9 5.0 8.9 5.4 Back pain 4.0 3.8 4.0 5.0 Hyperglycemia 3.9 5.7 4.4 8.1 Fatigue 3.6 5.0 4.0 1.9 Sinusitis 3.2 4.5 5.3 3.0 Diarrhea 2.3 3.3 15.6 3.0 Hypoglycemia 0.6 0.2 1.3 5.9 a Short-term trials ranged from 8 weeks to 1 year. b Includes patients receiving glyburide (N = 514), gliclazide (N = 91), or glipizide (N = 21). Overall, the types of adverse reactions without regard to causality reported when AVANDIA was used in combination with a sulfonylurea or metformin were similar to those during monotherapy with AVANDIA. Events of anemia and edema tended to be reported more frequently at higher doses, and were generally mild to moderate in severity and usually did not require discontinuation of treatment with AVANDIA. In double-blind trials, anemia was reported in 1.9% of patients receiving AVANDIA as monotherapy compared with 0.7% on placebo, 0.6% on sulfonylureas, and 2.2% on metformin. Reports of anemia were greater in patients treated with a combination of AVANDIA and metformin (7.1%) and with a combination of AVANDIA and a sulfonylurea plus metformin (6.7%) compared with monotherapy with AVANDIA or in combination with a sulfonylurea (2.3%). Lower pre-treatment hemoglobin/hematocrit levels in patients enrolled in the metformin combination clinical trials may have contributed to the higher reporting rate of anemia in these trials [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. In clinical trials, edema was reported in 4.8% of patients receiving AVANDIA as monotherapy compared with 1.3% on placebo, 1.0% on sulfonylureas, and 2.2% on metformin. The reporting rate of edema was higher for AVANDIA 8 mg in sulfonylurea combinations (12.4%) compared with other combinations, with the exception of insulin. Edema was reported in 14.7% of patients receiving AVANDIA in the insulin combination trials compared with 5.4% on insulin alone. Reports of new onset or exacerbation of congestive heart failure occurred at rates of 1% for insulin alone, and 2% (4 mg) and 3% (8 mg) for insulin in combination with AVANDIA [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. In controlled combination therapy trials with sulfonylureas, mild to moderate hypoglycemic symptoms, which appear to be dose related, were reported. Few patients were withdrawn for hypoglycemia (<1%) and few episodes of hypoglycemia were considered to be severe (<1%). Hypoglycemia was the most frequently reported adverse event in the fixed-dose insulin combination trials, although few patients withdrew for hypoglycemia (4 of 408 for AVANDIA plus insulin and 1 of 203 for insulin alone). Rates of hypoglycemia, confirmed by capillary blood glucose concentration ≤50 mg/dL, were 6% for insulin alone and 12% (4 mg) and 14% (8 mg) for insulin in combination with AVANDIA. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.9).] Long-term Trial of AVANDIA as Monotherapy: A 4- to 6-year trial (ADOPT) compared the use of AVANDIA (n = 1,456), glyburide (n = 1,441), and metformin (n = 1,454) as monotherapy in patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes who were not previously treated with antidiabetic medication. Table 4 presents adverse reactions without regard to causality; rates are expressed per 100 patient-years (PY) exposure to account for the differences in exposure to trial medication across the 3 treatment groups. In ADOPT, fractures were reported in a greater number of women treated with AVANDIA (9.3%, 2.7/100 patient-years) compared with glyburide (3.5%, 1.3/100 patient-years) or metformin (5.1%, 1.5/100 patient-years). The majority of the fractures in the women who received rosiglitazone were reported in the upper arm, hand, and foot. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.7).] The observed incidence of fractures for male patients was similar among the 3 treatment groups. Table 4. On-therapy Adverse Events [≥5 Events/100 Patient-Years (PY)] in any Treatment Group Reported in a 4- to 6-Year Clinical Trial of AVANDIA as Monotherapy (ADOPT) Preferred Term AVANDIA Glyburide Metformin N = 1,456 N = 1,441 N = 1,454 PY = 4,954 PY = 4,244 PY = 4,906 Nasopharyngitis 6.3 6.9 6.6 Back pain 5.1 4.9 5.3 Arthralgia 5.0 4.8 4.2 Hypertension 4.4 6.0 6.1 Upper respiratory tract infection 4.3 5.0 4.7 Hypoglycemia 2.9 13.0 3.4 Diarrhea 2.5 3.2 6.8 Long-term Trial of AVANDIA as Combination Therapy (RECORD): RECORD (Rosiglitazone Evaluated for Cardiac Outcomes and Regulation of Glycemia in Diabetes) was a multicenter, randomized, open-label, non-inferiority trial in subjects with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on maximum doses of metformin or sulfonylurea (glyburide, gliclazide, or glimepiride) to compare the time to reach the combined cardiovascular endpoint of cardiovascular death or cardiovascular hospitalization between patients randomized to the addition of AVANDIA versus metformin or sulfonylurea. The trial included patients who have failed metformin or sulfonylurea monotherapy; those who failed metformin (n = 2,222) were randomized to receive either AVANDIA as add-on therapy (n = 1,117) or add-on sulfonylurea (n = 1,105), and those who failed sulfonylurea (n = 2,225) were randomized to receive either AVANDIA as add-on therapy (n = 1,103) or add-on metformin (n = 1,122). Patients were treated to target HbA1c ≤7% throughout the trial. The mean age of patients in this trial was 58 years, 52% were male, and the mean duration of follow-up was 5.5 years. AVANDIA demonstrated non-inferiority to active control for the primary endpoint of cardiovascular hospitalization or cardiovascular death (HR 0.99, 95% CI: 0.85-1.16). There were no significant differences between groups for secondary endpoints with the exception of congestive heart failure (see Table 5). The incidence of congestive heart failure was significantly greater among patients randomized to AVANDIA. Table 5. Cardiovascular (CV) Outcomes for the RECORD Trial Primary Endpoint AVANDIA N = 2,220 Active Control N = 2,227 Hazard Ratio 95% CI CV death or CV hospitalization 321 323 0.99 0.85-1.16 Secondary Endpoint All-cause death 136 157 0.86 0.68-1.08 CV death 60 71 0.84 0.59-1.18 Myocardial infarction 64 56 1.14 0.80-1.63 Stroke 46 63 0.72 0.49-1.06 CV death, myocardial infarction, or stroke 154 165 0.93 0.74-1.15 Heart failure 61 29 2.10 1.35-3.27 There was an increased incidence of bone fracture for subjects randomized to AVANDIA in addition to metformin or sulfonylurea compared with those randomized to metformin plus sulfonylurea (8.3% versus 5.3%) [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]. The majority of fractures were reported in the upper limbs and distal lower limbs. The risk of fracture appeared to be higher in females relative to control (11.5% versus 6.3%), than in males relative to control (5.3% versus 4.3%). Additional data are necessary to determine whether there is an increased risk of fracture in males after a longer period of follow-up. Pediatric: AVANDIA has been evaluated for safety in a single, active-controlled trial of pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes in which 99 were treated with AVANDIA and 101 were treated with metformin. The most common adverse reactions (>10%) without regard to causality for either AVANDIA or metformin were headache (17% versus 14%), nausea (4% versus 11%), nasopharyngitis (3% versus 12%), and diarrhea (1% versus 13%). In this trial, one case of diabetic ketoacidosis was reported in the metformin group. In addition, there were 3 patients in the rosiglitazone group who had FPG of approximately 300 mg/dL, 2+ ketonuria, and an elevated anion gap. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Hematologic: Decreases in mean hemoglobin and hematocrit occurred in a dose-related fashion in adult patients treated with AVANDIA (mean decreases in individual trials as much as 1.0 g/dL hemoglobin and as much as 3.3% hematocrit). The changes occurred primarily during the first 3 months following initiation of therapy with AVANDIA or following a dose increase in AVANDIA. The time course and magnitude of decreases were similar in patients treated with a combination of AVANDIA and other hypoglycemic agents or monotherapy with AVANDIA. Pre-treatment levels of hemoglobin and hematocrit were lower in patients in metformin combination trials and may have contributed to the higher reporting rate of anemia. In a single trial in pediatric patients, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of 0.29 g/dL and 0.95%, respectively) were reported. Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit have also been reported in pediatric patients treated with AVANDIA. White blood cell counts also decreased slightly in adult patients treated with AVANDIA. Decreases in hematologic parameters may be related to increased plasma volume observed with treatment with AVANDIA. Lipids: Changes in serum lipids have been observed following treatment with AVANDIA in adults [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Small changes in serum lipid parameters were reported in children treated with AVANDIA for 24 weeks. Serum Transaminase Levels: In pre-approval clinical trials in 4,598 patients treated with AVANDIA (3,600 patient-years of exposure) and in a long-term 4- to 6-year trial in 1,456 patients treated with AVANDIA (4,954 patient-years exposure), there was no evidence of drug-induced hepatotoxicity. In pre-approval controlled trials, 0.2% of patients treated with AVANDIA had elevations in ALT >3X the upper limit of normal compared with 0.2% on placebo and 0.5% on active comparators. The ALT elevations in patients treated with AVANDIA were reversible. Hyperbilirubinemia was found in 0.3% of patients treated with AVANDIA compared with 0.9% treated with placebo and 1% in patients treated with active comparators. In pre-approval clinical trials, there were no cases of idiosyncratic drug reactions leading to hepatic failure. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.5).] In the 4- to 6-year ADOPT trial, patients treated with AVANDIA (4,954 patient-years exposure), glyburide (4,244 patient-years exposure), or metformin (4,906 patient-years exposure), as monotherapy, had the same rate of ALT increase to >3X upper limit of normal (0.3 per 100 patient-years exposure). In the RECORD trial, patients randomized to AVANDIA in addition to metformin or sulfonylurea (10,849 patient-years exposure) and to metformin plus sulfonylurea (10,209 patient-years exposure) had a rate of ALT increase to ≥3X upper limit of normal of approximately 0.2 and 0.3 per 100 patient-years exposure, respectively. 6.3 Postmarketing Experience In addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the events described below have been identified during post-approval use of AVANDIA. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to always establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. In patients receiving thiazolidinedione therapy, serious adverse events with or without a fatal outcome, potentially related to volume expansion (e.g., congestive heart failure, pulmonary edema, and pleural effusions) have been reported [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. There are postmarketing reports with AVANDIA of hepatitis, hepatic enzyme elevations to 3 or more times the upper limit of normal, and hepatic failure with and without fatal outcome, although causality has not been established. There are postmarketing reports with AVANDIA of rash, pruritus, urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactic reaction, Stevens-Johnson syndrome [see Contraindications (4)], and new onset or worsening diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS •Fluid retention, which may exacerbate or lead to heart failure, may occur. Combination use with insulin and use in congestive heart failure NYHA Class I and II may increase risk of other cardiovascular effects. (5.1) •Meta-analysis of 52 mostly short-term trials suggested a potential risk of ischemic cardiovascular (CV) events relative to placebo, not confirmed in a long-term CV outcome trial versus metformin or sulfonylurea. (5.2) •Dose-related edema (5.3), weight gain (5.4), and anemia (5.8) may occur. •Macular edema has been reported. (5.6) •Increased incidence of bone fracture. (5.7) 5.1 Cardiac Failure AVANDIA, like other thiazolidinediones, alone or in combination with other antidiabetic agents, can cause fluid retention, which may exacerbate or lead to heart failure. Patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure. If these signs and symptoms develop, the heart failure should be managed according to current standards of care. Furthermore, discontinuation or dose reduction of rosiglitazone must be considered [see Boxed Warning]. Patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) NYHA Class I and II treated with AVANDIA have an increased risk of cardiovascular events. A 52-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, echocardiographic trial was conducted in 224 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and NYHA Class I or II CHF (ejection fraction ≤45%) on background antidiabetic and CHF therapy. An independent committee conducted a blinded evaluation of fluid-related events (including congestive heart failure) and cardiovascular hospitalizations according to predefined criteria (adjudication). Separate from the adjudication, other cardiovascular adverse events were reported by investigators. Although no treatment difference in change from baseline of ejection fractions was observed, more cardiovascular adverse events were observed following treatment with AVANDIA compared with placebo during the 52-week trial. (See Table 1.) Table 1. Emergent Cardiovascular Adverse Events in Patients With Congestive Heart Failure (NYHA Class I and II) Treated With AVANDIA or Placebo (in Addition to Background Antidiabetic and CHF Therapy) Events AVANDIA N = 110 n (%) Placebo N = 114 n (%) Adjudicated Cardiovascular deaths 5 (5%) 4 (4%) CHF worsening 7 (6%) 4 (4%) – with overnight hospitalization 5 (5%) 4 (4%) – without overnight hospitalization 2 (2%) 0 (0%) New or worsening edema 28 (25%) 10 (9%) New or worsening dyspnea 29 (26%) 19 (17%) Increases in CHF medication 36 (33%) 20 (18%) Cardiovascular hospitalizationa 21 (19%) 15 (13%) Investigator-reported, non-adjudicated Ischemic adverse events 10 (9%) 5 (4%) – Myocardial infarction 5 (5%) 2 (2%) – Angina 6 (5%) 3 (3%) a Includes hospitalization for any cardiovascular reason. In a long-term, cardiovascular outcome trial (RECORD) in patients with type 2 diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)], the incidence of heart failure was higher in patients treated with AVANDIA [2.7% (61/2,220) compared with active control 1.3% (29/2,227), HR 2.10 (95% CI: 1.35, 3.27)]. Initiation of AVANDIA in patients with established NYHA Class III or IV heart failure is contraindicated. AVANDIA is not recommended in patients with symptomatic heart failure. [See Boxed Warning.] Patients experiencing acute coronary syndromes have not been studied in controlled clinical trials. In view of the potential for development of heart failure in patients having an acute coronary event, initiation of AVANDIA is not recommended for patients experiencing an acute coronary event, and discontinuation of AVANDIA during this acute phase should be considered. Patients with NYHA Class III and IV cardiac status (with or without CHF) have not been studied in controlled clinical trials. AVANDIA is not recommended in patients with NYHA Class III and IV cardiac status. Congestive Heart Failure During Coadministration of AVANDIA With Insulin: In trials in which AVANDIA was added to insulin, AVANDIA increased the risk of congestive heart failure. Coadministration of AVANDIA and insulin is not recommended. [See Indications and Usage (1), Warnings and Precautions (5.2).] In 7 controlled, randomized, double-blind trials which had durations from 16 to 26 weeks and which were included in a meta-analysis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.2)], patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were randomized to coadministration of AVANDIA and insulin (N = 1,018) or insulin (N = 815). In these 7 trials, AVANDIA was added to insulin. These trials included patients with long-standing diabetes (median duration of 12 years) and a high prevalence of pre-existing medical conditions, including peripheral neuropathy, retinopathy, ischemic heart disease, vascular disease, and congestive heart failure. The total number of patients with emergent congestive heart failure was 23 (2.3%) and 8 (1.0%) in the group receiving AVANDIA plus insulin and the insulin group, respectively. Heart Failure in Observational Studies of Elderly Diabetic Patients Comparing AVANDIA to Pioglitazone: Three observational studies in elderly diabetic patients (age 65 years and older) found that AVANDIA statistically significantly increased the risk of hospitalized heart failure compared to use of pioglitazone. One other observational study in patients with a mean age of 54 years, which also included an analysis in a subpopulation of patients >65 years of age, found no statistically significant increase in emergency department visits or hospitalization for heart failure in patients treated with AVANDIA compared to pioglitazone in the older subgroup. 5.2 Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events Data from long-term, prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trials of AVANDIA versus metformin or sulfonylureas, particularly a cardiovascular outcome trial (RECORD), observed no difference in overall mortality or in major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and its components. A meta-analysis of mostly short-term trials suggested an increased risk for myocardial infarction with AVANDIA compared with placebo. Cardiovascular Events in Large, Long-term, Prospective, Randomized, Controlled Trials of AVANDIA: RECORD, a prospectively designed cardiovascular outcome trial (mean follow-up 5.5 years; 4,447 patients), compared the addition of AVANDIA to metformin or a sulfonylurea (N = 2,220) with a control group of metformin plus sulfonylurea (N = 2,227) in patients with type 2 diabetes [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Non-inferiority was demonstrated for the primary endpoint, cardiovascular hospitalization or cardiovascular death, for AVANDIA compared with control [HR 0.99 (95% CI: 0.85, 1.16)] demonstrating no overall increased risk in cardiovascular morbidity or mortality. The hazard ratios for total mortality and MACE were consistent with the primary endpoint and the 95% CI similarly excluded a 20% increase in risk for AVANDIA. The hazard ratios for the components of MACE were 0.72 (95% CI: 0.49, 1.06) for stroke, 1.14 (95% CI: 0.80, 1.63) for myocardial infarction, and 0.84 (95% CI: 0.59, 1.18) for cardiovascular death. The results of RECORD are consistent with the findings of 2 earlier long-term, prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trials (each trial >3 years’ duration; total of 9,620 patients) (see Figure 1). In patients with impaired glucose tolerance (DREAM trial), although the incidence of cardiovascular events was higher among subjects who were randomized to AVANDIA in combination with ramipril than among subjects randomized to ramipril alone, no statistically significant differences were observed for MACE and its components between AVANDIA and placebo. In type 2 diabetes patients who were initiating oral agent monotherapy (ADOPT trial), no statistically significant differences were observed for MACE and its components between AVANDIA and metformin or a sulfonylurea. Figure 1. Hazard Ratios for the Risk of MACE, Myocardial Infarction, and Total Mortality With AVANDIA Compared With a Control Group in Long-term Trials Cardiovascular Events in a Group of 52 Clinical Trials: In a meta-analysis of 52 double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trials designed to assess glucose-lowering efficacy in type 2 diabetes (mean duration 6 months), a statistically significant increased risk of myocardial infarction with AVANDIA versus pooled comparators was observed [0.4% versus 0.3%; OR 1.8, (95% CI: 1.03, 3.25)]. A statistically non-significant increased risk of MACE was observed with AVANDIA versus pooled comparators (OR 1.44, 95% CI: 0.95, 2.20). In the placebo-controlled trials, a statistically significant increased risk of myocardial infarction [0.4% versus 0.2%, OR 2.23 (95% CI: 1.14, 4.64)] and statistically non-significant increased risk of MACE [0.7% versus 0.5%, OR 1.53 (95% CI: 0.94, 2.54)] with AVANDIA were observed. In the active-controlled trials, there was no increased risk of myocardial infarction or MACE. Mortality in Observational Studies of AVANDIA Compared to Pioglitazone: Three observational studies in elderly diabetic patients (age 65 years and older) found that AVANDIA statistically significantly increased the risk of all-cause mortality compared to use of pioglitazone. One observational study in patients with a mean age of 54 years found no difference in all-cause mortality between patients treated with AVANDIA compared to pioglitazone and reported similar results in the subpopulation of patients >65 years of age. One additional small, prospective, observational study found no statistically significant differences for CV mortality and all-cause mortality in patients treated with AVANDIA compared to pioglitazone. Figure 1 5.3 Edema AVANDIA should be used with caution in patients with edema. In a clinical trial in healthy volunteers who received 8 mg of AVANDIA once daily for 8 weeks, there was a statistically significant increase in median plasma volume compared with placebo. Since thiazolidinediones, including rosiglitazone, can cause fluid retention, which can exacerbate or lead to congestive heart failure, AVANDIA should be used with caution in patients at risk for heart failure. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of heart failure [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1), Patient Counseling Information (17)]. In controlled clinical trials of patients with type 2 diabetes, mild to moderate edema was reported in patients treated with AVANDIA, and may be dose related. Patients with ongoing edema were more likely to have adverse events associated with edema if started on combination therapy with insulin and AVANDIA [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.4 Weight Gain Dose-related weight gain was seen with AVANDIA alone and in combination with other hypoglycemic agents (Table 2). The mechanism of weight gain is unclear but probably involves a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation. In postmarketing experience, there have been reports of unusually rapid increases in weight and increases in excess of that generally observed in clinical trials. Patients who experience such increases should be assessed for fluid accumulation and volume-related events such as excessive edema and congestive heart failure [see Boxed Warning]. Table 2. Weight Changes (kg) From Baseline at Endpoint During Clinical Trials Monotherapy Duration Control Group AVANDIA 4 mg AVANDIA 8 mg Median (25th, 75th percentiles) Median (25th, 75th percentiles) Median (25th, 75th percentiles) 26 weeks placebo -0.9 (-2.8, 0.9) N = 210 1.0 (-0.9, 3.6) N = 436 3.1 (1.1, 5.8) N = 439 52 weeks sulfonylurea 2.0 (0, 4.0) N = 173 2.0 (-0.6, 4.0) N = 150 2.6 (0, 5.3) N = 157 Combination Therapy Sulfonylurea 24-26 weeks sulfonylurea 0 (-1.0, 1.3) N = 1,155 2.2 (0.5, 4.0) N = 613 3.5 (1.4, 5.9) N = 841 Metformin 26 weeks metformin -1.4 (-3.2, 0.2) N = 175 0.8 (-1.0, 2.6) N = 100 2.1 (0, 4.3) N = 184 Insulin 26 weeks insulin 0.9 (-0.5, 2.7) N = 162 4.1 (1.4, 6.3) N = 164 5.4 (3.4, 7.3) N = 150 Sulfonylurea + metformin 26 weeks sulfonylurea + metformin 0.2 (-1.2, 1.6) N = 272 2.5 (0.8, 4.6) N = 275 4.5 (2.4, 7.3) N = 276 In a 4- to 6-year, monotherapy, comparative trial (ADOPT) in patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes not previously treated with antidiabetic medication [see Clinical Studies (14.1)], the median weight change (25th, 75th percentiles) from baseline at 4 years was 3.5 kg (0.0, 8.1) for AVANDIA, 2.0 kg (-1.0, 4.8) for glyburide, and -2.4 kg (-5.4, 0.5) for metformin. In a 24-week trial in pediatric patients aged 10 to 17 years treated with AVANDIA 4 to 8 mg daily, a median weight gain of 2.8 kg (25th, 75th percentiles: 0.0, 5.8) was reported. 5.5 Hepatic Effects Liver enzymes should be measured prior to the initiation of therapy with AVANDIA in all patients and periodically thereafter per the clinical judgment of the healthcare professional. Therapy with AVANDIA should not be initiated in patients with increased baseline liver enzyme levels (ALT >2.5X upper limit of normal). Patients with mildly elevated liver enzymes (ALT levels ≤2.5X upper limit of normal) at baseline or during therapy with AVANDIA should be evaluated to determine the cause of the liver enzyme elevation. Initiation of, or continuation of, therapy with AVANDIA in patients with mild liver enzyme elevations should proceed with caution and include close clinical follow-up, including liver enzyme monitoring, to determine if the liver enzyme elevations resolve or worsen. If at any time ALT levels increase to >3X the upper limit of normal in patients on therapy with AVANDIA, liver enzyme levels should be rechecked as soon as possible. If ALT levels remain >3X the upper limit of normal, therapy with AVANDIA should be discontinued. If any patient develops symptoms suggesting hepatic dysfunction, which may include unexplained nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, fatigue, anorexia and/or dark urine, liver enzymes should be checked. The decision whether to continue the patient on therapy with AVANDIA should be guided by clinical judgment pending laboratory evaluations. If jaundice is observed, drug therapy should be discontinued. [See Adverse Reactions (6.2, 6.3).] 5.6 Macular Edema Macular edema has been reported in postmarketing experience in some diabetic patients who were taking AVANDIA or another thiazolidinedione. Some patients presented with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity, but some patients appear to have been diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination. Most patients had peripheral edema at the time macular edema was diagnosed. Some patients had improvement in their macular edema after discontinuation of their thiazolidinedione. Patients with diabetes should have regular eye exams by an ophthalmologist, per the Standards of Care of the American Diabetes Association. Additionally, any diabetic who reports any kind of visual symptom should be promptly referred to an ophthalmologist, regardless of the patient’s underlying medications or other physical findings. [See Adverse Reactions (6.1).] 5.7 Fractures Long-term trials (ADOPT and RECORD) show an increased incidence of bone fracture in patients, particularly female patients, taking AVANDIA [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. This increased incidence was noted after the first year of treatment and persisted during the course of the trial. The majority of the fractures in the women who received AVANDIA occurred in the upper arm, hand, and foot. These sites of fracture are different from those usually associated with postmenopausal osteoporosis (e.g., hip or spine). Other trials suggest that this risk may also apply to men, although the risk of fracture among women appears higher than that among men. The risk of fracture should be considered in the care of patients treated with AVANDIA, and attention given to assessing and maintaining bone health according to current standards of care. 5.8 Hematologic Effects Decreases in mean hemoglobin and hematocrit occurred in a dose-related fashion in adult patients treated with AVANDIA [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. The observed changes may be related to the increased plasma volume observed with treatment with AVANDIA. 5.9 Diabetes and Blood Glucose Control Patients receiving AVANDIA in combination with other hypoglycemic agents may be at risk for hypoglycemia, and a reduction in the dose of the concomitant agent may be necessary. Periodic fasting blood glucose and HbA1c measurements should be performed to monitor therapeutic response. 5.10 Ovulation Therapy with AVANDIA, like other thiazolidinediones, may result in ovulation in some premenopausal anovulatory women. As a result, these patients may be at an increased risk for pregnancy while taking AVANDIA [see Use in Specific Populations (8.1)]. Thus, adequate contraception in premenopausal women should be recommended. This possible effect has not been specifically investigated in clinical trials; therefore, the frequency of this occurrence is not known. Although hormonal imbalance has been seen in preclinical studies [see Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)], the clinical significance of this finding is not known. If unexpected menstrual dysfunction occurs, the benefits of continued therapy with AVANDIA should be reviewed."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Rosiglitazone+AND+Maleate+AND+and+AND+Glimepiride&limit=1&skip=4
Page 4 of 5
        "generic_name": [
          "ROSIGLITAZONE MALEATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Avandia"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 CYP2C8 Inhibitors and InducersAn inhibitor of CYP2C8 (e.g., gemfibrozil) may increase the AUC of rosiglitazone and an inducer of CYP2C8 (e.g., rifampin) may decrease the AUC of rosiglitazone. Therefore, if an inhibitor or an inducer of CYP2C8 is started or stopped during treatment with rosiglitazone, changes in diabetes treatment may be needed based upon clinical response. [See Clinical Pharmacology (12.4).]"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Adult In clinical trials, approximately 9,900 patients with type 2 diabetes have been treated with AVANDIA. Short-Term Trials of AVANDIA as Monotherapy and in Combination With Other Hypoglycemic Agents The incidence and types of adverse events reported in short-term clinical trials of AVANDIA as monotherapy are shown in Table 4. Table 4. Adverse Events (≥5% in Any Treatment Group) Reported by Patients in Short-Term* Double-Blind Clinical Trials With AVANDIA as Monotherapy Preferred Term AVANDIA Monotherapy N = 2,526 % Placebo N = 601 % Metformin N = 225 % Sulfonylureas† N = 626 % Upper respiratory tract infection 9.9 8.7 8.9 7.3 Injury 7.6 43.3 7.6 6.1 Headache 5.9 5.0 8.9 5.4 Back pain 4.0 3.8 4.0 5.0 Hyperglycemia 3.9 5.7 4.4 8.1 Fatigue 3.6 5.0 4.0 1.9 Sinusitis 3.2 4.5 5.3 3.0 Diarrhea 2.3 3.3 15.6 3.0 Hypoglycemia 0.6 0.2 1.3 5.9 * Short-term trials ranged from 8 weeks to 1 year. † Includes patients receiving glyburide (N = 514), gliclazide (N = 91), or glipizide (N = 21). Overall, the types of adverse reactions without regard to causality reported when AVANDIA was used in combination with a sulfonylurea or metformin were similar to those during monotherapy with AVANDIA. Events of anemia and edema tended to be reported more frequently at higher doses, and were generally mild to moderate in severity and usually did not require discontinuation of treatment with AVANDIA. In double-blind studies, anemia was reported in 1.9% of patients receiving AVANDIA as monotherapy compared to 0.7% on placebo, 0.6% on sulfonylureas, and 2.2% on metformin. Reports of anemia were greater in patients treated with a combination of AVANDIA and metformin (7.1%) and with a combination of AVANDIA and a sulfonylurea plus metformin (6.7%) compared to monotherapy with AVANDIA or in combination with a sulfonylurea (2.3%). Lower pre-treatment hemoglobin/hematocrit levels in patients enrolled in the metformin combination clinical trials may have contributed to the higher reporting rate of anemia in these studies [see Adverse Reactions (6.2)]. In clinical trials, edema was reported in 4.8% of patients receiving AVANDIA as monotherapy compared to 1.3% on placebo, 1.0% on sulfonylureas, and 2.2% on metformin. The reporting rate of edema was higher for AVANDIA 8 mg in sulfonylurea combinations (12.4%) compared to other combinations, with the exception of insulin. Edema was reported in 14.7% of patients receiving AVANDIA in the insulin combination trials compared to 5.4% on insulin alone. Reports of new onset or exacerbation of congestive heart failure occurred at rates of 1% for insulin alone, and 2% (4 mg) and 3% (8 mg) for insulin in combination with AVANDIA [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. In controlled combination therapy studies with sulfonylureas, mild to moderate hypoglycemic symptoms, which appear to be dose related, were reported. Few patients were withdrawn for hypoglycemia (less than 1%) and few episodes of hypoglycemia were considered to be severe (less than 1%). Hypoglycemia was the most frequently reported adverse event in the fixed-dose insulin combination trials, although few patients withdrew for hypoglycemia (4 of 408 for AVANDIA plus insulin and 1 of 203 for insulin alone). Rates of hypoglycemia, confirmed by capillary blood glucose concentration less than or equal to 50 mg/dL, were 6% for insulin alone and 12% (4 mg) and 14% (8 mg) for insulin in combination with AVANDIA. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.10).] Long-Term Trial of AVANDIA as Monotherapy A 4- to 6-year study (ADOPT) compared the use of AVANDIA (n = 1,456), glyburide (n = 1,441), and metformin (n = 1,454) as monotherapy in patients recently diagnosed with type 2 diabetes who were not previously treated with antidiabetic medication. Table 5 presents adverse reactions without regard to causality; rates are expressed per 100 patient-years (PY) exposure to account for the differences in exposure to study medication across the 3 treatment groups. In ADOPT, fractures were reported in a greater number of women treated with AVANDIA (9.3%, 2.7/100 patient-years) compared to glyburide (3.5%, 1.3/100 patient-years) or metformin (5.1%, 1.5/100 patient-years). The majority of the fractures in the women who received rosiglitazone were reported in the upper arm, hand, and foot. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.7).] The observed incidence of fractures for male patients was similar among the 3 treatment groups. Table 5. On-Therapy Adverse Events (Greater Than or Equal To 5 Events/100 Patient-Years [PY]) in Any Treatment Group Reported in a 4- to 6-Year Clinical Trial of AVANDIA as Monotherapy (ADOPT) AVANDIA Glyburide Metformin N = 1,456 N = 1,441 N = 1,454 PY = 4,954 PY = 4,244 PY = 4,906 Nasopharyngitis 6.3 6.9 6.6 Back pain 5.1 4.9 5.3 Arthralgia 5.0 4.8 4.2 Hypertension 4.4 6.0 6.1 Upper respiratory tract infection 4.3 5.0 4.7 Hypoglycemia 2.9 13.0 3.4 Diarrhea 2.5 3.2 6.8 Pediatric AVANDIA has been evaluated for safety in a single, active-controlled trial of pediatric patients with type 2 diabetes in which 99 were treated with AVANDIA and 101 were treated with metformin. The most common adverse reactions (greater than 10%) without regard to causality for either AVANDIA or metformin were headache (17% versus 14%), nausea (4% versus 11%), nasopharyngitis (3% versus 12%), and diarrhea (1% versus 13%). In this study, one case of diabetic ketoacidosis was reported in the metformin group. In addition, there were 3 patients in the rosiglitazone group who had FPG of ∼300 mg/dL, 2+ ketonuria, and an elevated anion gap. 6.2 Laboratory Abnormalities Hematologic Decreases in mean hemoglobin and hematocrit occurred in a dose-related fashion in adult patients treated with AVANDIA (mean decreases in individual studies as much as 1.0 g/dL hemoglobin and as much as 3.3% hematocrit). The changes occurred primarily during the first 3 months following initiation of therapy with AVANDIA or following a dose increase in AVANDIA. The time course and magnitude of decreases were similar in patients treated with a combination of AVANDIA and other hypoglycemic agents or monotherapy with AVANDIA. Pre-treatment levels of hemoglobin and hematocrit were lower in patients in metformin combination studies and may have contributed to the higher reporting rate of anemia. In a single study in pediatric patients, decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit (mean decreases of 0.29 g/dL and 0.95%, respectively) were reported. Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit have also been reported in pediatric patients treated with AVANDIA. White blood cell counts also decreased slightly in adult patients treated with AVANDIA. Decreases in hematologic parameters may be related to increased plasma volume observed with treatment with AVANDIA. Lipids Changes in serum lipids have been observed following treatment with AVANDIA in adults [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Small changes in serum lipid parameters were reported in children treated with AVANDIA for 24 weeks. Serum Transaminase Levels In pre-approval clinical studies in 4,598 patients treated with AVANDIA (3,600 patient-years of exposure) and in a long-term 4- to 6-year study in 1,456 patients treated with AVANDIA (4,954 patient-years exposure), there was no evidence of drug-induced hepatotoxicity. In pre-approval controlled trials, 0.2% of patients treated with AVANDIA had elevations in ALT >3X the upper limit of normal compared to 0.2% on placebo and 0.5% on active comparators. The ALT elevations in patients treated with AVANDIA were reversible. Hyperbilirubinemia was found in 0.3% of patients treated with AVANDIA compared with 0.9% treated with placebo and 1% in patients treated with active comparators. In pre-approval clinical trials, there were no cases of idiosyncratic drug reactions leading to hepatic failure. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.6).] In the 4- to 6-year ADOPT trial, patients treated with AVANDIA (4,954 patient-years exposure), glyburide (4,244 patient-years exposure), or metformin (4,906 patient-years exposure), as monotherapy, had the same rate of ALT increase to greater than 3X upper limit of normal (0.3 per 100 patient-years exposure). 6.3 Postmarketing ExperienceIn addition to adverse reactions reported from clinical trials, the events described below have been identified during post-approval use of AVANDIA. Because these events are reported voluntarily from a population of unknown size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency or to always establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. In patients receiving thiazolidinedione therapy, serious adverse events with or without a fatal outcome, potentially related to volume expansion (e.g., congestive heart failure, pulmonary edema, and pleural effusions) have been reported [see Boxed Warning and Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. There are postmarketing reports with AVANDIA of hepatitis, hepatic enzyme elevations to 3 or more times the upper limit of normal, and hepatic failure with and without fatal outcome, although causality has not been established. There are postmarketing reports with AVANDIA of rash, pruritus, urticaria, angioedema, anaphylactic reaction, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and new onset or worsening diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity [see Warnings and Precautions (5.7)]."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS 5.1 Cardiac FailureAVANDIA, like other thiazolidinediones, alone or in combination with other antidiabetic agents, can cause fluid retention, which may exacerbate or lead to heart failure. Patients should be observed for signs and symptoms of heart failure. If these signs and symptoms develop, the heart failure should be managed according to current standards of care. Furthermore, discontinuation or dose reduction of rosiglitazone must be considered [see Boxed Warning]. Patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) NYHA Class I and II treated with AVANDIA have an increased risk of cardiovascular events. A 52-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled echocardiographic study was conducted in 224 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and NYHA Class I or II CHF (ejection fraction ≤45%) on background antidiabetic and CHF therapy. An independent committee conducted a blinded evaluation of fluid-related events (including congestive heart failure) and cardiovascular hospitalizations according to predefined criteria (adjudication). Separate from the adjudication, other cardiovascular adverse events were reported by investigators. Although no treatment difference in change from baseline of ejection fractions was observed, more cardiovascular adverse events were observed following treatment with AVANDIA compared to placebo during the 52-week study. (See Table 1.) Table 1. Emergent Cardiovascular Adverse Events in Patients With Congestive Heart Failure (NYHA Class I and II) Treated With AVANDIA or Placebo (in Addition to Background Antidiabetic and CHF Therapy) Events AVANDIA Placebo N = 110 n (%) N = 114 n (%) Adjudicated Cardiovascular deaths 5 (5%) 4 (4%) CHF worsening 7 (6%) 4 (4%) - with overnight hospitalization 5 (5%) 4 (4%) - without overnight hospitalization 2 (2%) 0 (0%) New or worsening edema 28 (25%) 10 (9%) New or worsening dyspnea 29 (26%) 19 (17%) Increase in CHF medication 36 (33%) 20 (18%) Cardiovascular hospitalization* 21 (19%) 15 (13%) Investigator-reported, non-adjudicated Ischemic adverse events 10 (9%) 5 (4%) - Myocardial infarction 5 (5%) 2 (2%) - Angina 6 (5%) 3 (3%) * Includes hospitalization for any cardiovascular reason. Initiation of AVANDIA in patients with established NYHA Class III or IV heart failure is contraindicated. AVANDIA is not recommended in patients with symptomatic heart failure. [See Boxed Warning.] Patients experiencing acute coronary syndromes have not been studied in controlled clinical trials. In view of the potential for development of heart failure in patients having an acute coronary event, initiation of AVANDIA is not recommended for patients experiencing an acute coronary event, and discontinuation of AVANDIA during this acute phase should be considered. Patients with NYHA Class III and IV cardiac status (with or without CHF) have not been studied in controlled clinical trials. AVANDIA is not recommended in patients with NYHA Class III and IV cardiac status. 5.2 Myocardial Ischemia Meta-Analysis of Myocardial Ischemia in a Group of 42 Clinical Trials A meta-analysis was conducted retrospectively to assess cardiovascular adverse events reported across 42 double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trials (mean duration 6 months).1 These studies had been conducted to assess glucose-lowering efficacy in type 2 diabetes, and prospectively planned adjudication of cardiovascular events had not occurred in the trials. Some trials were placebo-controlled and some used active oral antidiabetic drugs as controls. Placebo-controlled studies included monotherapy trials (monotherapy with AVANDIA versus placebo monotherapy) and add-on trials (AVANDIA or placebo, added to sulfonylurea, metformin, or insulin). Active control studies included monotherapy trials (monotherapy with AVANDIA versus sulfonylurea or metformin monotherapy) and add-on trials (AVANDIA plus sulfonylurea or AVANDIA plus metformin, versus sulfonylurea plus metformin). A total of 14,237 patients were included (8,604 in treatment groups containing AVANDIA, 5,633 in comparator groups), with 4,143 patient-years of exposure to AVANDIA and 2,675 patient-years of exposure to comparator. Myocardial ischemic events included angina pectoris, angina pectoris aggravated, unstable angina, cardiac arrest, chest pain, coronary artery occlusion, dyspnea, myocardial infarction, coronary thrombosis, myocardial ischemia, coronary artery disease, and coronary artery disorder. In this analysis, an increased risk of myocardial ischemia with AVANDIA versus pooled comparators was observed (2% AVANDIA versus 1.5% comparators, odds ratio 1.4, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.1, 1.8). An increased risk of myocardial ischemic events with AVANDIA was observed in the placebo-controlled studies, but not in the active-controlled studies. (See Figure 1.) A greater increased risk of myocardial ischemic events was observed in studies where AVANDIA was added to insulin (2.8% for AVANDIA plus insulin versus 1.4% for placebo plus insulin, [OR 2.1, 95% CI 0.9, 5.1]). This increased risk reflects a difference of 3 events per 100 patient-years (95% CI -0.1, 6.3) between treatment groups. [See Warnings and Precautions (5.3).] Figure 1. Forest Plot of Odds Ratios (95% Confidence Intervals) for Myocardial Ischemic Events in the Meta-Analysis of 42 Clinical Trials A greater increased risk of myocardial ischemia was also observed in patients who received AVANDIA and background nitrate therapy. For AVANDIA (N = 361) versus control (N = 244) in nitrate users, the odds ratio was 2.9 (95% CI 1.4, 5.9), while for non-nitrate users (about 14,000 patients total), the odds ratio was 1.3 (95% CI 0.9, 1.7). This increased risk represents a difference of 12 myocardial ischemic events per 100 patient-years (95% CI 3.3, 21.4). Most of the nitrate users had established coronary heart disease. Among patients with known coronary heart disease who were not on nitrate therapy, an increased risk of myocardial ischemic events for AVANDIA versus comparator was not demonstrated. image of Figure 1. Forest Plot of Odds Ratios"
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
