https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:rubidium+AND+Rb+AND+82+AND+generator&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "RUBIDIUM CHLORIDE RB-82"
        "brand_name": [
          "CardioGen-82"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Specific drug-drug interactions have not been studied."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Bracco Diagnostics Inc at 1-800-257-5181 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch 6.1 Postmarketing Experience The following serious adverse reactions have been identified during postapproval use of CardioGen-82. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Unintended radiation exposure has occurred in some patients who received rubidium Rb 82 chloride injections at clinical sites where generator eluate testing appeared insufficient [see Boxed Warning, Warnings and Precautions (5.1), and Dosage and Administration (2.5)]."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Unintended radiation exposure occurs when Sr-82 and Sr-85 levels in rubidium Rb 82 chloride injection exceed specified generator eluate limits (5.1) Pharmacologic induction of cardiovascular stress: May cause serious adverse reactions such as myocardial infarction, arrhythmia, hypotension, broncho-constriction, and cerebrovascular events. Perform testing only in setting where cardiac resuscitation equipment and trained staff are readily available. (5.2) Volume overload: Observe patients with congestive heart failure during infusion and for several hours following injection. (5.3) 5.1 Unintended Sr-82 and Sr-85 Exposure Unintended radiation exposure occurs when the Sr-82 and Sr-85 levels in rubidium Rb 82 chloride injections exceed the specified generator eluate limits. Unintended exposure to strontium radiation has occurred in some patients who received rubidium Rb 82 injections at clinical sites where generator eluate testing appeared insufficient. The physical half lives of Sr-82 and Sr-85 are 25 days and 65 days, respectively, in contrast to Rb-82 which has a physical half-life of 75 seconds. Unintended exposure to strontium radiation contributes to a patient’s overall cumulative radiation dose [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. To minimize the risk of unintended radiation exposure, strict adherence to a daily eluate testing protocol is required. Stop using the rubidium generator when the expiration limits are reached [see Dosage and Administration (2.5) and (2.6)]. 5.2 Risks Associated with Pharmacologic Stress Pharmacologic induction of cardiovascular stress may be associated with serious adverse reactions such as myocardial infarction, arrhythmia, hypotension, bronchoconstriction, and cerebrovascular events. Perform pharmacologic stress testing in accordance with the pharmacologic stress agent’s prescribing information and only in the setting where cardiac resuscitation equipment and trained staff are readily available. 5.3 Volume Overload Patients with congestive heart failure or the elderly may experience a transitory increase in circulatory volume load. Observe these patients during infusion and for several hours following rubidium chloride injection administration to detect delayed hemodynamic disturbances. 5.4 Cumulative Radiation Exposure: Long-Term Risk of Cancer Rubidium Rb 82 chloride injection, similar to other radiopharmaceuticals, contributes to a patient’s overall long-term cumulative radiation exposure. Long-term cumulative radiation exposure is associated with an increased risk of cancer. Use the lowest dose of rubidium Rb 82 chloride injection necessary for imaging and ensure safe handling to protect the patient and health care worker [see Dosage and Administration (2.2) and (2.3)]. Encourage patients to void as soon as a study is completed and as often as possible thereafter for at least one hour."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
