https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Secukinumab+AND+Injection&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "SECUKINUMAB"
        "brand_name": [
          "COSENTYX"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Drug interaction trials have not been conducted with COSENTYX. Live Vaccines: Live vaccines should not be given with COSENTYX. (5.6, 7.1) 7.1 Live Vaccines Patients treated with COSENTYX may not receive live vaccinations [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 7.2 Non-Live Vaccines Patients treated with COSENTYX may receive non-live vaccinations. Healthy individuals who received a single 150 mg dose of COSENTYX 2 weeks prior to vaccination with a non-U.S. approved group C meningococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine and a non-U.S. approved inactivated seasonal influenza vaccine had similar antibody responses compared to individuals who did not receive COSENTYX prior to vaccination. The clinical effectiveness of meningococcal and influenza vaccines has not been assessed in patients undergoing treatment with COSENTYX [see Warnings and Precautions (5.6)]. 7.3 CYP450 Substrates A role for IL-17A in the regulation of CYP450 enzymes has not been reported. The formation of CYP450 enzymes can be altered by increased levels of certain cytokines (e.g., IL-1, IL-6, IL-10, TNFα, IFN) during chronic inflammation. Thus, COSENTYX, an antagonist of IL-17A, could normalize the formation of CYP450 enzymes. Upon initiation or discontinuation of COSENTYX in patients who are receiving concomitant CYP450 substrates, particularly those with a narrow therapeutic index, consider monitoring for therapeutic effect (e.g., for warfarin) or drug concentration (e.g., for cyclosporine) and consider dosage modification of the CYP450 substrate."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail elsewhere in the labeling: Infections [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)] Exacerbations of Crohn's Disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)] Hypersensitivity Reactions [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)] Most common adverse reactions (>1%) are nasopharyngitis, diarrhea, and upper respiratory tract infection. (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation at 1-888-669-6682 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trials Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. A total of 3430 plaque psoriasis subjects were treated with COSENTYX in controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials. Of these, 1641 subjects were exposed for at least 1 year. Four placebo-controlled phase 3 trials in plaque psoriasis subjects were pooled to evaluate the safety of COSENTYX in comparison to placebo up to 12 weeks after treatment initiation, in Trials 1, 2, 3, and 4. In total, 2077 subjects were evaluated (691 to COSENTYX 300 mg group, 692 to COSENTYX 150 mg group, and 694 to placebo group) [see Clinical Studies (14)]. Table 1 summarizes the adverse reactions that occurred at a rate of at least 1% and at a higher rate in the COSENTYX groups than the placebo group during the 12-week placebo-controlled period of the placebo-controlled trials. Table 1 Adverse Reactions Reported by Greater Than 1% of Subjects with Plaque Psoriasis Through Week 12 in Trials 1, 2, 3, and 4 COSENTYX Adverse Reactions 300 mg (N=691) n (%) 150 mg (N=692) n (%) Placebo (N=694) n (%) Nasopharyngitis 79 (11.4) 85 (12.3) 60 (8.6) Diarrhea 28 (4.1) 18 (2.6) 10 (1.4) Upper respiratory tract infection 17 (2.5) 22 (3.2) 5 (0.7) Rhinitis 10 (1.4) 10 (1.4) 5 (0.7) Oral herpes 9 (1.3) 1 (0.1) 2 (0.3) Pharyngitis 8 (1.2) 7 (1.0) 0 (0) Urticaria 4 (0.6) 8 (1.2) 1 (0.1) Rhinorrhea 8 (1.2) 2 (0.3) 1 (0.1) Adverse reactions that occurred at rates less than 1% in the placebo-controlled period of Trials 1, 2, 3, and 4 through Week 12 included: sinusitis, tinea pedis, conjunctivitis, tonsillitis, oral candidiasis, impetigo, otitis media, otitis externa, inflammatory bowel disease, increased liver transaminases and neutropenia. Infections In the placebo-controlled period of the clinical trials in plaque psoriasis (a total of 1382 subjects treated with COSENTYX and 694 subjects treated with placebo up to 12 weeks), infections were reported in 28.7% of subjects treated with COSENTYX compared with 18.9% of subjects treated with placebo. Serious infections occurred in 0.14% of patients treated with COSENTYX and in 0.3% of patients treated with placebo [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. Over the entire treatment period (a total of 3430 plaque psoriasis subjects treated with COSENTYX for up to 52 weeks for the majority of subjects), infections were reported in 47.5% of subjects treated with COSENTYX (0.9 per patient-year of follow-up). Serious infections were reported in 1.2% of subjects treated with COSENTYX (0.015 per patient-year of follow-up). Phase 3 data showed an increasing trend for some types of infection with increasing serum concentration of secukinumab. Candida infections, herpes viral infections, staphylococcal skin infections, and infections requiring treatment increased as serum concentration of secukinumab increased. Neutropenia was observed in clinical trials. Most cases of secukinumab-associated neutropenia were transient and reversible. No serious infections were associated with cases of neutropenia. Exacerbation of Crohn's Disease Exacerbations of Crohn's disease, in some cases serious, were observed in clinical trials in both COSENTYX and placebo treated patients. In the psoriasis program, with 3430 patients exposed to COSENTYX there were 3 cases of exacerbation of Crohn's disease [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylaxis and cases of urticaria occurred in COSENTYX-treated patients in clinical trials [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. 6.2 Immunogenicity As with all therapeutic proteins, there is the potential for immunogenicity. The immunogenicity of COSENTYX was evaluated using an electrochemiluminescence-based bridging immunoassay. Less than 1% of subjects treated with COSENTYX developed antibodies to secukinumab in up to 52 weeks of treatment. However, this assay has limitations in detecting anti-secukinumab antibodies in the presence of secukinumab; therefore the incidence of antibody development might not have been reliably determined. Of the subjects who developed antidrug antibodies, approximately one-half had antibodies that were classified as neutralizing. Neutralizing antibodies were not associated with loss of efficacy. The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay. Additionally, the observed incidence of antibody (including neutralizing antibody) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications, and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of incidence of antibodies to COSENTYX with the incidences of antibodies to other products may be misleading."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Infections: Serious infections have occurred. Caution should be exercised when considering the use of COSENTYX in patients with a chronic infection or a history of recurrent infection. If a serious infection develops, discontinue COSENTYX until the infection resolves. (5.1) Tuberculosis (TB): Prior to initiating treatment with COSENTYX, evaluate for TB. (5.2) Crohn's Disease: Exacerbations observed in clinical trials. Caution should be exercised when prescribing COSENTYX to patients with active Crohn's disease. (5.3) Hypersensitivity Reactions: If an anaphylactic reaction or other serious allergic reaction occurs, discontinue COSENTYX immediately and initiate appropriate therapy. (5.4) 5.1 Infections COSENTYX may increase the risk of infections. In clinical trials, a higher rate of infections was observed in COSENTYX-treated subjects compared to placebo-treated subjects. In placebo-controlled clinical trials, higher rates of common infections such as nasopharyngitis (11.4% versus 8.6%), upper respiratory tract infection (2.5% versus 0.7%) and mucocutaneous infections with candida (1.2% versus 0.3%) were observed with COSENTYX compared with placebo. The incidence of some types of infections appeared to be dose-dependent in clinical studies [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. Exercise caution when considering the use of COSENTYX in patients with a chronic infection or a history of recurrent infection. Instruct patients to seek medical advice if signs or symptoms suggestive of an infection occur. If a patient develops a serious infection, the patient should be closely monitored and COSENTYX should be discontinued until the infection resolves. 5.2 Pre-treatment Evaluation for Tuberculosis Evaluate patients for tuberculosis (TB) infection prior to initiating treatment with COSENTYX. Do not administer COSENTYX to patients with active TB infection. Initiate treatment of latent TB prior to administering COSENTYX. Consider anti-TB therapy prior to initiation of COSENTYX in patients with a past history of latent or active TB in whom an adequate course of treatment cannot be confirmed. Patients receiving COSENTYX should be monitored closely for signs and symptoms of active TB during and after treatment. 5.3 Exacerbations of Crohn's Disease Exercise caution when prescribing COSENTYX to patients with active Crohn's disease, as exacerbations of Crohn's disease, in some cases serious, were observed in COSENTYX-treated patients during clinical trials. Patients who are treated with COSENTYX and have active Crohn's disease should be monitored closely [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions Anaphylaxis and cases of urticaria occurred in COSENTYX-treated patients in the clinical trials. If an anaphylactic or other serious allergic reaction occurs, administration of COSENTYX should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy initiated [see Adverse Reactions (6.1)]. 5.5 Risk of Hypersensitivity in Latex-sensitive Individuals The removable cap of the COSENTYX Sensoready pen and the COSENTYX prefilled syringe contains natural rubber latex which may cause an allergic reaction in latex-sensitive individuals. The safe use of COSENTYX Sensoready pen or prefilled syringe in latex-sensitive individuals has not been studied. 5.6 Vaccinations Prior to initiating therapy with COSENTYX, consider completion of all age appropriate immunizations according to current immunization guidelines. Patients treated with COSENTYX should not receive live vaccines. Non-live vaccinations received during a course of COSENTYX may not elicit an immune response sufficient to prevent disease."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
