https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Selegiline+AND+Transdermal+AND+System&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "SELEGILINE"
        "brand_name": [
          "EMSAM"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS 7.1 Serotonergic Drugs Serious, sometimes fatal, central nervous system (CNS) toxicity referred to as the "serotonin syndrome" has been reported with the combination of nonselective MAOIs and serotonergic drugs. Use of EMSAM with these drugs is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. 7.2 Tyramine EMSAM has the capacity to inhibit intestinal MAO, which is responsible for the catabolism of tyramine in food and beverages. As a result of this inhibition, large amounts of tyramine may enter the systemic circulation and precipitate a sudden, large rise in blood pressure or hypertensive crisis [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. A diet low in tyramine content may be necessary to avoid this interaction. Studies to evaluate the potential for EMSAM to inhibit tyramine metabolism have been conducted and, overall, the data for EMSAM 6 mg per 24 hours support a recommendation that a modified diet is not required at this dose. Due to the more limited data available for EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours and the results from the Phase I tyramine challenge study in fed volunteers administered EMSAM 12 mg per 24 hours, patients receiving these doses should follow Dietary Modifications Required for Patients Taking EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours and 12 mg per 24 hours below [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Dietary Modifications Required for Patients Taking EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours and 12 mg per 24 hours The foods and beverages listed in Table 5 should be avoided beginning on the first day of EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours or 12 mg per 24 hours treatment, and should continue to be avoided for 2 weeks after a dose reduction to EMSAM 6 mg per 24 hours or following the discontinuation of EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours or 12 mg per 24 hours. Table 5. Food and Beverages to Avoid and Those which are Acceptable [see References (15)] Class of Food and Beverage Tyramine-Rich Foods and Beverages to Avoid Acceptable Foods and Drinks, Containing No or Little Tyramine Meat, Poultry, and Fish Air dried, aged and fermented meats, sausages and salamis (including cacciatore, hard salami and mortadella); pickled herring; and any spoiled or improperly stored meat, poultry, and fish (e.g., foods that have undergone changes in coloration, odor, or become moldy); spoiled or improperly stored animal livers Fresh meat, poultry, and fish, including fresh processed meats (e.g., lunch meats, hot dogs, breakfast sausage, and cooked sliced ham) Vegetables Broad bean pods (fava bean pods) All other vegetables Dairy Aged cheeses Processed cheeses, mozzarella, ricotta cheese, cottage cheese, and yogurt Beverages All varieties of tap beer and beers that have not been pasteurized so as to allow for ongoing fermentation Concomitant use of alcohol with EMSAM is not recommended. (Bottled and canned beers and wines contain little or no tyramine.) Miscellaneous Concentrated yeast extract (e.g., Marmite), sauerkraut, most soybean products (including soy sauce and tofu), OTC supplements containing tyramine Brewer's yeast, baker's yeast, soy milk, commercial chain restaurant pizzas prepared with cheeses low in tyramine 7.3 Sympathomimetic Amines and Buspirone The use of EMSAM with sympathomimetic amines or buspirone may produce substantial elevations in blood pressure. Therefore, monitor blood pressure if EMSAM is used with any of the following drugs: buspirone, amphetamines, and cold products or weight-reducing preparations that contain sympathomimetic amines (e.g., pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, phenylpropanolamine, and ephedrine). 7.4 Effect of Other Drugs on EMSAM Carbamazepine is contraindicated with MAOIs, including selegiline [see Contraindications (4), Warnings and Precautions (5.3) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. No dose adjustment for EMSAM is needed when EMSAM is used concomitantly with alcohol, alprazolam, ibuprofen, olanzapine, risperidone, levothyroxine, and CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole). No clinically meaningful change in selegiline exposure was seen when EMSAM was co-administered with alcohol, alprazolam, ibuprofen, olanzapine, risperidone, levothyroxine, and ketoconazole [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. 7.5 Effect of EMSAM on Other Drugs Use of alcohol while taking EMSAM is not recommended, even though EMSAM has not been shown to increase the impairment of mental and motor skills caused by alcohol (0.75 mg per kg) [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. Monitor blood pressure if sympathomimetic agents (e.g., phenylpropanolamine (PPA) or pseudoephedrine) are used with EMSAM, even though selegiline does not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics of PPA or pseudoephedrine [see Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)]. No dose adjustment of alprazolam, ibuprofen, levothyroxine, olanzapine, risperdione, warfarin, or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ketoconazole) is necessary when these drugs are used in combination with EMSAM. EMSAM had no clinically relevant effect on pharmacokinetics of these drugs."
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS The following adverse reactions are discussed in greater detail in other sections of the label. -Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk [see Warnings and Precautions (5.1)]. -Serotonin Syndrome [see Contraindications (4) and Warnings and Precautions (5.2)]. -Blood Pressure Elevation [see Warnings and Precautions (5.3)]. -Activation of Mania/Hypomania [see Warnings and Precautions (5.4)]. -Adverse Reactions occurring at an incidence of 2% or More Among EMSAM-Treated Patients and greater than placebo: Application site reaction, headache, insomnia, diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia, rash, pharyngitis, sinusitis (6.1). To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Mylan Specialty L.P. at 1-877-4-INFO-RX (877-446-3679) or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in clinical practice. Patient Exposure The premarketing development program for EMSAM included selegiline exposures in patients and/or normal subjects from two different groups of studies: 702 healthy subjects in clinical pharmacology/pharmacokinetics studies and 2,036 exposures from patients in controlled and uncontrolled major depressive disorder clinical trials. The conditions and duration of treatment with EMSAM varied and included double-blind, open-label, fixed-dose, and dose titration studies of short-term and longer-term exposures. Safety was assessed by monitoring adverse reactions, physical examinations, vital signs, body weights, laboratory analyses, and ECGs. Adverse reactions during exposure were obtained primarily by general inquiry and recorded by clinical investigators. In the tables and tabulations that follow, standard COSTART terminology has been used to classify reported adverse reactions. The stated frequencies of adverse reactions represent the proportion of individuals who experienced, at least once, a treatment-emergent adverse reaction of the type listed. A reaction was considered treatment-emergent if it occurred for the first time or worsened while receiving therapy following baseline evaluation. Adverse Reactions Leading To Discontinuation of Treatment Among 817 MDD patients treated with EMSAM at doses of either 3 mg per 24 hours (151 patients), 6 mg per 24 hours (550 patients) or 6 mg per 24 hours, 9 mg per 24 hours, and 12 mg per 24 hours (116 patients) in placebo-controlled trials of up to 8 weeks in duration, 7.1% discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction as compared with 3.6% of 668 patients receiving placebo. The only adverse reaction associated with discontinuation, in at least 1% of EMSAM-treated patients at a rate at least twice that of placebo, was application site reaction (2% EMSAM vs. 0% placebo). Adverse Reactions Occurring at an Incidence of 2% or More Among EMSAM-Treated Patients Table 2 enumerates adverse reactions that occurred at an incidence of 2% or more (rounded to the nearest percent) among 817 MDD patients treated with EMSAM in doses ranging from 3 to 12 mg per 24 hours in placebo-controlled trials of up to 8 weeks in duration. Reactions included are those occurring in 2% or more of patients treated with EMSAM and for which the incidence in patients treated with EMSAM was greater than the incidence in placebo-treated patients. One adverse reaction was associated with a reporting of at least 5% in the EMSAM group, and a rate at least twice that in the placebo group, in the pool of short-term, placebo-controlled studies: application site reactions (see Application Site Reactions, below). In one such study which utilized higher mean doses of EMSAM than that in the entire study pool, the following reactions met these criteria: application site reactions, insomnia, diarrhea, and pharyngitis. Table 2. Treatment-Emergent Adverse Reactions: Incidence in Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials for Major Depressive Disorder with EMSAMReactions reported by at least 2% of patients treated with EMSAM are included, except the following reactions, which had an incidence on placebo treatment greater than or equal to EMSAM: infection, nausea, dizziness, pain, abdominal pain, nervousness, back pain, asthenia, anxiety, flu syndrome, accidental injury, somnolence, rhinitis, and palpitations. Body System/Preferred Term EMSAM (N = 817) Placebo (N = 668) (% of Patients Reporting Reaction) Body as a Whole Headache 18 17 Digestive Diarrhea 9 7 Dyspepsia 4 3 Nervous Insomnia 12 7 Dry Mouth 8 6 Respiratory Pharyngitis 3 2 Sinusitis 3 1 Skin Application Site Reaction 24 12 Rash 4 2 Application Site Reactions In the pool of short-term, placebo-controlled major depressive disorder studies, application site reactions (ASRs) were reported in 24% of EMSAM-treated patients and 12% of placebo-treated patients. Most ASRs were mild or moderate in severity. ASRs led to dropout in 2% of EMSAM-treated patients and no placebo-treated patients. In one such study which utilized higher mean doses of EMSAM, ASRs were reported in 40% of EMSAM-treated patients and 20% of placebo-treated patients. Most of the ASRs in this study were described as erythema and most resolved spontaneously, requiring no treatment. When treatment was administered, it most commonly consisted of dermatological preparations of corticosteroids. Sexual Dysfunction Although changes in sexual desire, sexual performance, and sexual satisfaction often occur as manifestations of a psychiatric disorder, they may also be a consequence of pharmacologic treatment. Reliable estimates of the incidence and severity of untoward experiences involving sexual desire, performance, and satisfaction are difficult to obtain, in part because patients and physicians may be reluctant to discuss them. Accordingly, estimates of the incidence of untoward sexual experience and performance cited in product labeling are likely to underestimate their actual incidence. Table 3 shows that the incidence rates of sexual side effects in patients with major depressive disorder are comparable to the placebo rates in placebo-controlled trials. Table 3. Incidence of Sexual Side Effects in Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trials with EMSAM Adverse Reaction EMSAM Placebo IN MALES ONLY (N = 304) (N = 256) Abnormal Ejaculation 1.0% 0.0% Decreased Libido 0.7% 0.0% Impotence 0.7% 0.4% Anorgasmia 0.2% 0.0% IN FEMALES ONLY (N = 513) (N = 412) Decreased Libido 0.0% 0.2% There are no adequately designed studies examining sexual dysfunction with EMSAM treatment. Vital Sign Changes EMSAM and placebo groups were compared with respect to (1) mean change from baseline in vital signs (pulse, systolic blood pressure, and diastolic blood pressure), and (2) the incidence of patients meeting criteria for potentially clinically significant changes from baseline in these variables. In the pool of short-term, placebo-controlled major depressive disorder studies, 3.0% of EMSAM-treated patients and 1.5% of placebo-treated patients experienced a low systolic blood pressure, defined as a reading less than or equal to 90 mmHg with a change from baseline of at least 20 mmHg. In one study which utilized higher mean doses of EMSAM, 6.2% of EMSAM-treated patients and no placebo-treated patients experienced a low standing systolic blood pressure by these criteria. In the pool of short-term major depressive disorder trials, 9.8% of EMSAM-treated patients and 6.7% of placebo-treated patients experienced a notable orthostatic change in blood pressure, defined as a decrease of at least 10 mmHg in mean blood pressure with postural change. Weight Changes In placebo-controlled studies (6 to 8 weeks), the incidence of patients who experienced at least 5% weight gain or weight loss is shown in Table 4. Table 4. Incidence of Weight Gain and Weight Loss in Placebo-Controlled Trials with EMSAM Weight Change EMSAM Placebo (N = 757) (N = 614) Gained at least 5% 2.1% 2.4% Lost at least 5% 5.0% 2.8% In these trials, the mean change in body weight among EMSAM-treated patients was a 1.2 lbs loss compared to 0.3 lbs gain in placebo-treated patients. Laboratory Changes EMSAM and placebo groups were compared with respect to (1) mean change from baseline in various serum chemistry, hematology, and urinalysis variables, and (2) the incidence of patients meeting criteria for potentially clinically significant changes from baseline in these variables. These analyses revealed no clinically important changes in laboratory test parameters associated with EMSAM. Electrocardiogram Changes Electrocardiograms (ECGs) from EMSAM (N = 817) and placebo (N = 668) groups in controlled studies were compared with respect to (1) mean change from baseline in various ECG parameters, and (2) the incidence of patients meeting criteria for clinically significant changes from baseline in these variables. No clinically meaningful changes in ECG parameters from baseline to final visit were observed for patients in controlled studies. Other Reactions Observed During the Premarketing Evaluation of EMSAM The following listing does not include reactions: 1) already listed elsewhere in labeling, 2) for which a causal relationship to drug was remote, 3) which were so general as to be uninformative, 4) which were not considered to have significant clinical implications, or 5) which occurred at a rate equal to or less than placebo. Cardiovascular System: Tachycardia. Digestive System: Anorexia. Nervous System: Agitation, amnesia, tremor, twitching. Skin and Appendages: Pruritus. 6.2 Postmarketing Experience The following adverse reactions have been identified during post-approval use of EMSAM. Because these reactions are reported voluntarily from a population of uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal relationship to drug exposure. Nervous System: Convulsion and hypoesthesia. Psychiatric System: Disorientation, hallucination (visual), and tension."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS -Tyramine-Induced Hypertensive Crisis: Patients receiving EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours and 12 mg per 24 hours should follow the recommended dietary modifications (5.3). -Blood Pressure Elevation Related to Concomitant Medication: monitor blood pressure if EMSAM is used with any of the following drugs: buspirone, amphetamines, or cold products or weight-reducing preparations that contain sympathomimetic amines (e.g., pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, phenylpropanolamine, and ephedrine) (5.3). -Activation of Mania/Hypomania: Use cautiously in patients with a history of mania (5.4). -External Heat: Avoid exposing the EMSAM application site to external sources of direct heat, such as heating pads or electric blankets, heat lamps, saunas, hot tubs, heated water beds, and prolonged direct sunlight (5.5). 5.1 Clinical Worsening and Suicide Risk Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), both adult and pediatric, may experience worsening of their depression and/or the emergence of suicidal ideation and behavior (suicidality) or unusual changes in behavior, whether or not they are taking antidepressant medications, and this risk may persist until significant remission occurs. Suicide is a known risk of depression and certain other psychiatric disorders, and these disorders themselves are the strongest predictors of suicide. There has been a long-standing concern, however, that antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment. Pooled analyses of short-term placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs] and others) showed that these drugs increase the risk of suicidal thinking and behavior (suicidality) in children, adolescents, and young adults (ages 18 to 24) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders. Short-term studies did not show an increase in the risk of suicidality with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults beyond age 24; there was a trend toward risk reduction with antidepressants compared to placebo in adults aged 65 and older. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in children and adolescents with MDD, obsessive compulsive disorders (OCD), or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 24 short-term trials of nine antidepressant drugs in over 4,400 patients. The pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials in adults with MDD or other psychiatric disorders included a total of 295 short-term trials (median duration of two months) of 11 antidepressant drugs in over 77,000 patients. There was considerable variation in risk of suicidality among drugs, but a tendency toward an increase in the younger patients for almost all drugs studied. There were differences in absolute risk of suicidality across the different indications, with the highest incidence in MDD. The risk differences (drug vs. placebo), however, were relatively stable within age strata and across indications. These risk differences (drug-placebo difference in the number of cases of suicidality per 1,000 patients treated) are provided in Table 1. Table 1. Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Cases of Suicidality per 1000 Patients Treated Age Range Increases Compared to Placebo < 18 14 additional cases 18 to 24 5 additional cases Decreases Compared to Placebo 25 to 64 1 fewer case >= 65 6 fewer cases No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric trials. There were suicides in the adult trials, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about drug effect on suicide. It is unknown whether the suicidality risk extends to longer term use, i.e., beyond several months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance trials in adults with depression that the use of antidepressants can delay the recurrence of depression. All patients being treated with antidepressants for any indication should be monitored appropriately and observed closely for clinical worsening, suicidality, and unusual changes in behavior, especially during the initial few months of a course of drug therapy, or at times of dose changes, either increases or decreases. The following symptoms anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia (psychomotor restlessness), hypomania, and mania have been reported in adult and pediatric patients being treated with antidepressants for MDD as well as for other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric. Although a causal link between the emergence of such symptoms and either the worsening of depression and/or the emergence of suicidal impulses has not been established, there is concern that such symptoms may represent precursors to emerging suicidality. Consideration should be given to changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing the medication, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidality or symptoms that might be precursors to worsening depression or suicidality, especially if these symptoms are severe, abrupt in onset, or were not part of the patient's presenting symptoms. Families and caregivers of patients being treated with antidepressants for MDD or other indications, both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric, should be alerted about the need to monitor patients for the emergence of agitation, irritability, unusual changes in behavior, and the other symptoms described above, as well as the emergence of suicidality, and to report such symptoms immediately to healthcare providers. Such monitoring should include daily observation by families and caregivers. Screening Patients for Bipolar Disorder A major depressive episode may be the initial presentation of bipolar disorder. It is generally believed (though not established in controlled trials) that treating such an episode with an antidepressant alone may increase the likelihood of precipitation of a mixed/manic episode in patients at risk for bipolar disorder. Whether any of the symptoms described above represent such a conversion is unknown. However, prior to initiating treatment with an antidepressant, patients with depressive symptoms should be adequately screened to determine if they are at risk for bipolar disorder; such screening should include a detailed psychiatric history, including a family history of suicide, bipolar disorder, and depression. It should be noted that EMSAM is not approved for use in treating bipolar depression. 5.2 Serotonin Syndrome The development of a potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with concomitant use of MAOIs, such as EMSAM, with serotonergic drugs. These reactions have also been reported in patients who have discontinued serotonergic drugs and then subsequently started an MAOI [see Contraindications (4)]. Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular changes (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea). Patients should be monitored for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Treatment with EMSAM and any concomitant serotonergic agents should be discontinued immediately if the above events occur and supportive treatment should be initiated. 5.3 Blood Pressure Elevation Tyramine-Induced Hypertensive Crisis EMSAM inhibits the catabolism of dietary amines, such as tyramine, and has the potential to produce a hypertensive crisis following the ingestion of tyramine-rich foods or beverages [see Drug Interactions (7.2) and Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)]. Hypertensive crises, which in some cases may be fatal, are characterized by some or all of the following symptoms: occipital headache which may radiate frontally, palpitation, neck stiffness or soreness, nausea, vomiting, sweating (sometimes with fever and sometimes with cold, clammy skin), dilated pupils, and photophobia. Either tachycardia or bradycardia may be present and can be associated with constricting chest pain. Intracranial bleeding has been reported in association with the increase in blood pressure. Patients should be instructed as to the signs and symptoms of severe hypertension and advised to seek immediate medical attention if these signs or symptoms are present. If a hypertensive crisis occurs, EMSAM should be discontinued immediately and therapy to lower blood pressure should be instituted immediately. Fever should be managed by means of external cooling. Patients must be closely monitored until symptoms have stabilized. To prevent a hypertensive crisis, patients receiving treatment with EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours or EMSAM 12 mg per 24 hours should follow the advice regarding a low tyramine diet described in Table 5 under Dietary Modifications Required for Patients Taking EMSAM 9 mg per 24 hours and 12 mg per 24 hours [see Drug Interactions (7.2)]. Blood Pressure Elevation Related to Concomitant Medication Carbamazepine is contraindicated with EMSAM because carbamazepine has been shown to significantly elevate selegiline levels, which may increase the risk of a hypertensive crisis [see Contraindications (4) and Drug Interactions (7.4)]. The use of EMSAM with adrenergic drugs or buspirone may produce substantial increases in blood pressure. Therefore, monitor blood pressure if EMSAM is used with any of the following drugs: buspirone, amphetamines, or cold products or weight-reducing preparations that contain sympathomimetic amines (e.g., pseudoephedrine, phenylephrine, phenylpropanolamine, and ephedrine). 5.4 Activation of Mania/Hypomania During Phase III trials, a manic reaction occurred in 8 out of 2,036 (0.4%) patients treated with EMSAM. Activation of mania/hypomania can occur in a small proportion of patients with major depressive disorder treated with antidepressants. EMSAM should be used cautiously in patients with a history of mania. 5.5 External Heat The effect of direct heat applied to the EMSAM patch on the bioavailability of selegiline has not been studied. However, in theory, heat may result in an increase in the amount of selegiline absorbed from the EMSAM patch and produce elevated serum levels of selegiline. Patients should be advised to avoid exposing the EMSAM application site to external sources of direct heat, such as heating pads or electric blankets, heat lamps, saunas, hot tubs, heated water beds, and prolonged direct sunlight."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
