https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Sucroferric+AND+Oxyhydroxide+AND+Chewable+AND+Tablets&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "SUCROFERRIC OXYHYDROXIDE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Velphoro"
 
      "drug_interactions": [
        "7 DRUG INTERACTIONS Table 1 Oral drugs that can be administered concomitantly with Velphoro Calcitriol Ciprofloxacin Digoxin Enalapril Furosemide HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors Hydrochlorothiazide Losartan Metoprolol Nifedipine Omeprazole Quinidine Warfarin Oral drugs that are to be separated from Velphoro and meals Dosing Recommendations Doxycycline Take at least 1 hour before Velphoro. Oral drugs that should not be prescribed with Velphoro Levothyroxine Oral medications not listed in Table 1 There are no empirical data on avoiding drug interactions between Velphoro and most concomitant oral drugs. For oral medications where a reduction in the bioavailability of that medication would have a clinically significant effect on its safety or efficacy, consider separating the administration of the two drugs. The necessary separation depends upon the absorption characteristics of the medication concomitantly administered, such as the time to reach peak systemic levels and whether the drug is an immediate release or an extended release product. Where possible, consider monitoring for clinical response and/or blood levels of concomitant medications that have a narrow therapeutic range. Velphoro can be administered concomitantly with oral calcitriol, ciprofloxacin, digoxin, enalapril, furosemide, HMG‑CoA reductase inhibitors, hydrochlorothiazide, losartan, metoprolol, nifedipine, omeprazole, quinidine and warfarin. (7) Take doxycycline at least 1 hour before Velphoro. (7) Velphoro should not be prescribed with oral levothyroxine. (7)"
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "6 ADVERSE REACTIONS In a parallel design, fixed-dose study of 6 weeks duration, the most common adverse drug reactions to Velphoro chewable tablets in hemodialysis patients included discolored feces (12%) and diarrhea (6%). (6.1) To report SUSPECTED ADVERSE REACTIONS, contact Fresenius Medical Care North America at 1-800-323-5188 or FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch. 6.1 Clinical Trial Experience Because clinical trials are conducted under widely varying conditions, adverse reaction rates observed in the clinical trials of a drug cannot be directly compared to rates in the clinical trials of another drug and may not reflect the rates observed in practice. The safety data derived from Velphoro clinical trials reflect exposure to Velphoro in 2 active-controlled clinical studies involving a total of 778 patients on hemodialysis and 57 patients on peritoneal dialysis exposed for up to 55 weeks. Dosage regimens ranged from 250 mg to 3,000 mg per day. As expected with oral preparations containing iron, discolored (dark colored) feces was a commonly occurring adverse drug reaction. In a parallel design, dose-finding study of Velphoro with a treatment duration of 6 weeks in hemodialysis patients, adverse reactions for Velphoro (N=128) were similar to those reported for the active-control group (sevelamer hydrochloride) (N=26), with the exception of discolored feces (12%) which did not occur in the active-control group and diarrhea (6%). In a 55-week, open-label, active-controlled, parallel design, safety and efficacy study involving 968 hemodialysis patients and 86 peritoneal dialysis patients treated with either Velphoro (N=707 including 57 peritoneal dialysis patients) or the active-control (sevelamer carbonate) (N=348 including 29 peritoneal dialysis patients), adverse reactions occurring in more than 5% in the Velphoro group were diarrhea (24%), discolored feces (16%), and nausea (10%). The majority of diarrhea events in the Velphoro group were mild and transient, occurring soon after initiation of treatment, and resolving with continued treatment. Similar adverse reactions occurred at similar rates in hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis patients. The most common adverse reactions (>1%) leading to withdrawal were diarrhea (4%), product taste abnormal (2%), and nausea (2%)."
      "warnings_and_cautions": [
        "5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS Patients with peritonitis during peritoneal dialysis, significant gastric or hepatic disorders, following major gastrointestinal surgery, or with a history of hemochromatosis or other diseases with iron accumulation have not been included in clinical studies with Velphoro. Monitor effect and iron homeostasis in such patients. (5.1) 5.1 Monitoring in Patients with Gastrointestinal Disorders or Iron Accumulation Disorders Patients with peritonitis during peritoneal dialysis, significant gastric or hepatic disorders, following major gastrointestinal (GI) surgery, or with a history of hemochromatosis or other diseases with iron accumulation have not been included in clinical studies with Velphoro. Monitor effect and iron homeostasis in such patients."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
