https://api.fda.gov/drug/label.json?api_key=mIN5BAt8Q4kciIz367SmtW9t6aWsj0oF6bafJBOd&search=generic_name:Vinblastine+AND+Sulfate+AND+Injection&limit=1&skip=0
Page 0 of 1
        "generic_name": [
          "VINBLASTINE SULFATE"
        "brand_name": [
          "Vinblastine Sulfate"
 
      "adverse_reactions": [
        "ADVERSE REACTIONS Prior to the use of the drug, patients should be advised of the possibility of untoward symptoms . In general, the incidence of adverse reactions attending the use of vinblastine sulfate appears to be related to the size of the dose employed. With the exception of epilation, leukopenia and neurologic side effects, adverse reactions generally have not persisted for longer than 24 hours. Neurologic side effects are not common; but when they do occur, they often last for more than 24 hours. Leukopenia, the most common adverse reaction, is usually the dose-limiting factor. The following are manifestations that have been reported as adverse reactions, in decreasing order of frequency. The most common adverse reactions are underlined: Hematologic — Leukopenia (granulocytopenia), anemia, thrombocytopenia (myelosuppression). Dermatologic —Alopecia is common. A single case of light sensitivity associated with this product has been reported. Gastrointestinal — Constipation , anorexia, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, ileus, vesiculation of the mouth, pharyngitis, diarrhea, hemorrhagic enterocolitis, bleeding from an old peptic ulcer and rectal bleeding. Neurologic —Numbness of digits (paresthesias), loss of deep tendon reflexes, peripheral neuritis, mental depression, headache, convulsions. Treatment with vinca alkaloids has resulted rarely in both vestibular and auditory damage to the eighth cranial nerve. Manifestations include partial or total deafness which may be temporary or permanent, and difficulties with balance including dizziness, nystagmus and vertigo. Particular caution is warranted when vinblastine sulfate is used in combination with other agents known to be ototoxic such as the platinum-containing oncolytics. Cardiovascular — Hypertension —Cardiac effects such as myocardial infarction, angina pectoris and transient abnormalities of ECG related to coronary ischemia have been reported very rarely. Cases of unexpected myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular accidents have occurred in patients undergoing combination chemotherapy with vinblastine, bleomycin and cisplatin. Raynaud’s phenomenon has also been reported with this combination. Pulmonary —See PRECAUTIONS. Miscellaneous — Malaise, bone pain, weakness, pain in tumor-containing tissue , dizziness, jaw pain , skin vesiculation, hypertension, Raynaud’s phenomenon when patients are being treated with vinblastine sulfate in combination with bleomycin and cis-platinum for testicular cancer. The syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone has occurred with higher than recommended doses. Nausea and vomiting usually may be controlled with ease by antiemetic agents. When epilation develops, it frequently is not total; and, in some cases, hair regrows while maintenance therapy continues. Extravasation during intravenous injection may lead to cellulitis and phlebitis. If the amount of extravasation is great, sloughing may occur."
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
